THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 1

Federal wood inhabited by hermits, wandering mendicants, herons, wildcats; federal wood is everywhere sublimely beautiful. Tom, growing to man's estate among its superior nobility, learns to respect and admire the simple beauty of life therein. Federal woodman was everywhere, he was a name in every manor, and a sort or gentleman of some note in almost every town. The domestic woodfields are sublime as fountains, as lakes, and as groves of great trees. They were everywhere to him a wonder and a revelation of the beauty of nature. The simple beauty, too, or, in short, that which consists in the happiness of the scene, of every part of which nothing can be more simple, more beautiful, or more agreeable, than that which consists in the flowers, grasses, trees and shrubs, is everywhere a sublime pleasure, a source of sublime enjoyment.

Hermits, mendicants, and heron-riders, too, in the Domestic Woodlines abound. The simple beauty of life in hermitages is in every respect superior to that of life among men of fashion. The happiness of those hermits is in every respect equal to that which is enjoyed by the greatest and most distinguished of men.

Hero Childhood in the Federal Woodland Sarum, or the Wood of Giants, was inhabited by heroes, giants, and half-giants, as well as by human beings. The number of heroes, who have lived in Sarum, is said to have been very great. The simple beauty of life there is accordingly sublime. Sarum is a very beautiful place, in which the air, which, in summer, is said to be as clear and pure as crystal, is said to be full of fountains, of springs, and of torrents, which run down into the sea. The air is so clear and pure, that it is said to be fit for conceiving a child. The air, which, at this season of the year, is said to prevail over a great part of Europe, was, at that time (about the middle of the fourteenth century), said likewise to prevail over the greater part of Asia. The woods of Sarum, as well as all the other woody countries in Europe, were inhabited by the giants, who, in order to preserve the balance of the world, sometimes came down from the mountains to inhabit them. They were, however (for

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 2

woods obstruct the course of noxious winds only as much by their own virtue, or the violence and direction of such winds, which they cannot hinder, as by other circumstances), of a much more delicate constitution, and could be protected only by the roof of some house or building above them, and by some other sort of protection of earth, which, though it might be capable of resisting a very strong wind from any direction, could scarce ever be capable of defending one from a direct attack of that wind.

The domestic woodlands, therefore, are those artificial terraces, ponds, meadows, and groves of all kinds, planted for pasture, either in the neighbourhood of a manor or in that which a lord-in-waiting holds, which are situated within a mile of the place of his residence, and which, from the nature of their situation, can be either no more than half cultivated, or very thinly inhabited. Such wood is, in general, of a more delicate constitution, and can be more easily defended; but can scarce be defended at all, even with these more delicate materials, against the direct attack of such a violent and violent wind, which can come from any direction, without bringing ruin, destruction and desolation to all its immediate inhabitants, even of the cultivated part of the wood.
10. SUMMON A WANDERING MONSTER
The Story itself begins, "The shepherd had gone home to bed, and was just going out to feed his flocks, when suddenly out of the mist a black horse galloped, and the shepherd saw that it was a Manx."

This seems to be a very loose translation of what is called the Herne, or Riding Horsa, a beast of almost universal superstition in Scotland, supposed to be the ghost of the dead husband, and to have the same attributes with him. It is represented as having a long, slender, and almost invisible body, with two horns upon its head, and two wings upon its back, and is said to travel about in a night-mare, or in a trance, accompanied by a woman who rides upon a white horse, and carries with her the same kind of weapons with which she rides, which she sometimes carries about with her, either in her hand or on her back, sometimes standing, and sometimes reclining upon a white cushion. The man who kills this beast is supposed, upon this account alone, to gain the favour of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 3

the cat by deed of kindness. Tom arrived just in time; the cat was dead or very nearly dead, and the woodlands were already in an uproar from the noise which the dead cat made. He called aloud, in a loud, clear voice to the people, that there was a dead cat in the woodlands; and, immediately, the constable came, and, taking a long stick with which to beat the grass, and a large stone with a hole in it through which to pour water, began to beat it as fast as he could. But as the constable was not a man to be moved by terror, and was not able to continue for any considerable time in the performance of this office; the tumult subsided very soon, and the stone being poured out, the stick was taken from him, the man who had been accustomed to beat it being dismissed. But though the stone had been poured out, the cat had not been killed. The constable was very much alarmed, and immediately went to the man who had been accustomed to beat the stone, and informed him that there was a dead cat in the woodlands. He immediately, accordingly, went to the wood, where he found the dead cat.

The domestic woods afford us many beautiful situations for cathedrals and chapels.
It is upon this account that they have sometimes been considered as possible habitations of the gods.

Tom saved another cat this book out of the same tumult. The constables, upon learning of the accident, were much alarmed. The cat, too, was killed, but was not quite dead. The constable went again to his old habitation; and as he was not able, for some time, either to beat the grass or to throw water, the tumult subsisted for some time longer. But at last, by a resolution to which I have no reason to believe he was ever afterwards able, he determined to go to the domestic woodland, and, in the presence both of the man who was accustomed to beat the rock and of the constable, to save the cat.

The constables, when they arrived at the house of the man who had been used frequently to do the one duty, and to do the other so negligently, were much alarmed. The cat, too, was killed, and the constable went in pursuit of the cat-killer. The constable was a very strong man, and, as he was

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 4

afraid Tom would hurt himself, he ordered the woodsman never to go out of his sight. Mother Hero, however, finding that her love for Hero was rewarded by his good behaviour, continued to go out of his view as seldom as possible. The woodsman, finding himself thus without patron or protector (the constable having been a magistrate), was not only willing to give up his trade, but to follow his mother willingly, without any other recompense, than the esteem and love of his mistress. The book which recounts his adventures, and the novell in which they are set down, is entitled, The Domestic Woodslands, Tom Hero's childhood there; and is written by Herr Tom Hero himself, who was Tom's father.

Hero, when he had become an able, respectable, and well-behaved man, was not long in coming into the good graces of Tom Hero's mother, Hero's grandmother. She had been his nurse when he first came into the world, and had taught him all the things that were necessary for his subsistence; such as the use of fire, the use and care of fire-arms; and the use of a water-pond, and of the springs which were to be found near it. When he had grown to manhood, she continued, she continued to teach him all the same things which had taught her when he was a child; and he was always willing to learn them again. She was, perhaps too, too fond a mother to be able to give up her little business, of going from house to house with her son, in order to give his lessons; and, as the domestic woodlands were near at hand, it happened frequently that she could teach them herself. In this situation, the reward of a good mother is very great; and, as the wood-lands were near at Handan's house, it happened frequently that he would teach her the lessons which she herself had learnt. The reward of a bad mother is scarce any thing; and, as he had no other patron or protector besides the esteem and love of his own family, it was his interest, as well as that of his master, to learn the lessons of his grandmother, as well as he could.

When Hero, however, grew to manhood and had acquired a little stock of money, he found that his grandfather, though he had always obeyed his orders, and always obstructed no one who opposed them

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 5

, had grown weary of him, and of Mentors too, whom he found to be troublesome and troublesome to him, and to hinder him from performing his duty. Tom was now sent abroad abroad, to seek Mentors, whom, as long as he remained in the country, he was obliged to obey, and to obey with all the sincerity of a man who believed himself bound by duty to obey. First among them was Tom Elfin, a woodman of great reputation and authority, whose woods were said to be so full of treasures, that even the dogs could not enter them.

Next was a certain old Forest-man, who lived in a little hut in the woods. This old Forestman had, in the beginning of the author of this story written down to every tree which he had ever seen or heard of in the Woods, and had likewise written down the name and abode of every beast and bird that had ever lived in them; but had never written down to any man. He had, however, heard much of a certain young woodman, who had, about the same time, gone to seek Mentor Hero, at Tom Hero's request, and who, in order to save his life, was said to have been killed in the woods by a bear.

The Domestic Woodlands represents Tom being sent abroad, in quest after Mentors; and the author of the NO VEY

First among them was a Certain Old Woodman, whose woods were said to be so full of treasures that even the dogs could enter them.

The Forest-man represented to Tom the duties of Mentor, and the temptations to disobey those duties.

The hero finds his own way through many adventures, in which he must, at all times, either obey or disoblige his mentors; and the whole course of his life, from the time of the first discovery of the Woodland Hills, to the end of his life, is thus described with great fidelity, and with great distinctness.

In a nobleness of character, superior even to that character of the author himself, there are several characters of great merit and distinction in The Domestic Woodlands; Mentors of different kinds, and of all different kinds; the author himself; and, lastly the author of this wonderful story, of which the object is to excite the wonder and admiration of the young, and to teach the young the duties of a gentleman

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 6

. Mentors are mentioned in this novella in a great variety of shapes; sometimes good, sometimes bad, sometimes indifferent; sometimes men of learning, sometimes men without learning, and sometimes women. The demon beast attacks all these different classes very differently. Sometimes through the woods, and in the remoter parts, it destroys the cultivated vineyards, and the corn fields, without any sort or acknowledgment being paid to the inhabitants of the country. Sometimes through the woods, and through the ruins of a great city, it destroys the cultivated corn fields, and the vineyards; and sometimes through the ruins of a great city, it destroys neither corn nor vineyards.

Good men, and some of them women, are the principal Mentors of Tom, at first through the woods, and afterwards through the ruinous city. The good men of learning, and of some sort of learning, endeavour, by all sorts of arts and sciences, to preserve from being devoured by the beast; and they are, perhaps, the principal, perhaps the only, who succeed. The author of this story himself is one of those who succeed; and, as he is a gentleman of some note, he hears first of the ravags of the beast, and afterwards of its effects in other countries.

The author of this story, who had heard of the ravages which the evil of the bull had inflicted upon several countries, including that part of Europe which at that time belonged to the Saracens, thought proper, for the sake of curiosity and illustration, to relate to the young his own adventures in the same manner as the adventures of a hero are commonly related. The hero, as he himself is the author of the story; so the demon as he is the author, of those ravagings of which he relates the adventures. The hero is the same with him; and as the hero himself is the author of the novellas which compose the work, the same thing may be said of the demon.

The evil which this demon had inflicted upon the world was equal, it seems, not only to that which the author himself had heard concerning it, but to many times that evil. The world was filled with the screams of the oppressed and afflicted, and with those dreadful sights which the eyes of the human frame cannot easily conceive; and this was the dreadful spectacle which the human mind was at that time accustomed to view with horror and astonishment.

Good men

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 7

screamed, and some fled in terror from its paws or incisors, while others endeavoured to defend themselves by throwing stones or boulders at it. Tom Knight appeased it for a moment, by throwing some stones at it, which hurtle through the air, and either cleave or tear into pieces the Demon Beast's prey. But it soon began again, and with the sharp talons of its hands and of its head, which are not less than five feet long, and of such a size, as to admit of a man being easily dismembered, could not be destroyed but in a very short time.

In order to defend himself, and to save his life, it was in this manner that he determined to travel over the desert. He was then only about fourteen, and had never been in a desert before.

In a desert, where every foot of ground is covered with sand, the most direct road is necessarily the shortest. It was therefore his intention to make this road in a way that was as difficult as possible.

The story of his adventures in the deserts, in the country of the Indus, is told in this Story, Tom Hero.

It is divided into two chapters, each of which treats of a particular adventure of his.

In the first chapter, called the Preface, he relates to us what happened to him during the two or three months that he was without food, or shelter, during those two or threepence a-day, or about the middle of December 1755. In this situation he was not afraid of the beast; because it did not attack him. But when he had found some bread and water in the desert, it devoured them both in a few hours.
10. THE DEMON BEAST

Similar fictional Beasts

The sharpness of its talons


 Tom hero heard of the devastation which his imaginary friend the Demon Beast had lately wrought in the neighbourhood, and of the dreadful wounds which it had made in the human body, in the same manner, I believe, that other people sometimes hear of the cruelties of tyrants, and of the sufferings which they sometimes occasion.

The latter circumstance is of very little importance, and may perhaps be accounted for, without any loss of any part of his reputation.

The former, however, may be accounted for without any loss of any part of it. It is

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 8

for the honour of my father's factory, therefore, that I attempt again its honourable employments, and that no hurt shall ever be done to them by me returning so hastily."

Upon Tom's making this solemn declaration to Mr. Hero, his father promised to restore to work at his keepsake factory all the skill which it had lost by his absence.

After this declaration, the novel continues with the attempt; describing the obstacles which hinder him from returning to it, and the manner in which he resolves, with great skill and perseverance, to get at them. The resolution of Tom Hero, accordingly, to exert all his skill again, is the object and purpose of the whole second half of the journey.

After this second solemn declaration, however (the third and last of the three), that his father would restore all the skill which it had lost, and that he was determined never to attempt to return, without the permission of his master and overseer, Mr. Hero, in order not to be troublesome to them, and to save time and labour, resolves to attempt. But before beginning the work which he intends to do, he first removes to the place where he intends to work, takes out his works, and arranges them according to his fancy. He does not always, indeed, carry them with him to this place, but, as they are his own, and he has the use of them, he goes to the place where they are to be found, and, without any one being the wiser, he puts them in motion, and executes their work.

His intention at this early period of his work, though he had resolved, at the same moment, to exert all his skill to return to it, yet, by not going to the proper place, and without having previously arranged the business in his own mind, without first removing his works to the place which he meant to work in, without first putting them in movement, and executing their work upon the materials which he meant to work upon, he was, perhaps, not so perfectly determined as he might otherwise have been. Had he gone to the proper place, and executed his work upon the materials which were to be worked upon, it would not have been necessary to remove the works to the place where he meant either work or rest. Had he gone to rest, and had his works been properly arranged in his mind before he went to rest himself; the work of his mind

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 9

might afterwards be performed by the hands which he left there, without his ever having left the factory.

His father, however (for he had not the power to do better), though unwilling that he should attempt returning at all, yet gave him leave to do so, upon condition that Tom, for a year, should work for his keepsake factory as if it was still in good order.

During this period (from the 1st of December 1773 to the 1 st of January 1775), the adventure of Returning from Labour at his Father's Keepsadoodle Factory took place, as follows:

I was in bed one night, and, about midnight, I fancied I saw something move under my bed. I rose immediately and opened the door of my bed-chamber, and, finding nothing there, went to bed again. About two o'clock, I began, in the same manner as in the fore part of the novella, to read a magazine of poetry. The pages of the magazine were all occupied by poetry; and, in order to relieve myself, I frequently turned over the pages, and sometimes even read a little while without turning them over, in order to relieve the trouble of reading.
11th December 1773.

I had been in bed a good while before I fancieved I saw anything move under the bed. At last, I rose, opened my door, and finding no thing there, went to sleep again, as before.

I was in bed one night, and in a dream I fancied I saw something move under the bed, which I immediately endeavoured to wake up. But the movement was too violent, and too sudden, to allow me to do so. I arose, opened the door, and found nothing there.
 The next day, however, when the magazine of poetry was opened, I observed, in one of the pages, a little story of the attempt of Tom Talent to resume work at his father's keepsake manufactory, which had appeared in the Magazine of the Works in 1772. It was written by his own hand, and was evidently a very tender and affectionate piece of writing. I had not read the magazine before; and, in the midst of a dream, had not time either, to read over the pages of the magazine. But I was so much interested in what had happened in the dream, that I soon read over the whole of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 10

it again. Tom, your workhouse will soon be full of keepakes again? asked Uncle Alec, in great alarm.

Tom shook his head. I shall never attempt returning to work at Father Gumo's keepsake factory again, he said.

"But why?" I inquired.

"I have seen the ghost in my sleep," said Tom. "She is a very ugly one, and I have always been afraid of her. I am afraid of all ghosts."

I was very much astonished at what I heard, but did not ask any further questions. I had read the novella before, and had been assured by Mr Gummo, who had written it, and by the keepers of Gummo's factory, who were witnesses to its reality, and who had been with him during the night in his sleep, that it related to an actual event which had happened in reality. I had even heard that the ghost was a young lady, who wore a keep-sake factory upon her person, and who had attempted to return to work at his father Gumo's manufactory, but had been prevented by some accident. The keeper of the manufactory had been so much alarmed, that he called out in a loud voice to the keepers of his manufactories, that they should immediately remove the workhouse from under the ground, in order to prevent any accident which should happen in its neighbourhood. The keepers of the manufactories, who happened then to be with him in his sleep, heard his call, and went immediately to his house, where they found the keep-sake factory, which had fallen into their hands. The keeper had been so much astonished at what he had seen, that he could not sleep any longer, and was obliged to call out to his servants to bring him some food. The servant who brought the food, heard his call too; and going in search of some food, found him lying upon his back upon the floor of his bed, with his hands upon his head. He had been so much alarmed, that, without any further warning, he fell asleep, without even knowing how he got there, and without even knowing what was the matter with which he was suffering himself to be so much disturbed, or what he was afraid of.

The servants of the house were so much alarmed at what had happened, and were afraid lest something worse than sleep should take place, that they immediately called for

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 11

me again, in great terror, and entreated me to battle the Beast. But I was so afraid, that for several days, without food or water, I could scarce venture out upon the highway, and went every day into a secluded, woody, and thickly forested spot, where I spent the greater part, both nights, and days (I lived so very long, that I was almost always very sick and feeble), in profound thought, without leaving the house, except when I was called for, and only then for a short time. At last, at last I resolved to face the Demon Beast, and, if I should lose the fight, not to write another adventure of the hero till I had fought the thing once, and lost it.

When I had resolved upon this resolution, it was with a certain sense of purpose and resolution, and without any reserve or hesitation, that I went to fight the Beast.

Tom, it will be remembered (I think you've had occasion to study this little book), is an orphan, a poor laborer, who is carried about from place to place, by his master, who has no other means either of subsistence or education. His adventures, however, as we have seen, are always represented as keptakes. When Tom heroizes himself in making keepsakes wrong (a habit which he seems to be going gradually more and more to forget, and which, in consequence of some of his misfortunes, is gradually coming to be regarded as a deformity), the servants, who are sensible of his fault, entreat him to fight the demon beast, and to conquer it, and thereby to gain their daily subsistence and their daily education. The evil effects of his fault become gradually more and more manifest, and gradually lead him to despair of ever being able to recover it. The evil effects of his neglect become gradually greater and more glaring. In the end, the servants of the house, finding it impossible to manage without him, entreat him to leave them, and go on a journey, in order to find out the proper way of making ends with him. The object of his journey is represented as symbolized in the Tom Hero adventure.
10. Symbolic Significance


The Demon Beast Symbolic Importence

In this novelette, Tom learns of his mother, that he has made keepsakes of horses instead of dolls.


In the original manuscript

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 12

, Tom, too, left off his hero's parting from his mother as soon as it was told him, and continued upon his own. JosephCampCampbellIdeaofthemonomsyth tom-her-hero's journeyandended off A noveobook PG12TomHerHerohisbyetoHisMotherendoff A novel pg 12
The monomriad in which Campbell bases his Hero Cycle consist, first, in the adventures of the Egyptian god Anubis, who is represented as the personification either, of fear or of sleep; and, secondly, of the Greek and Roman gods Herakles and Dionysus, who are represented as wandering about the world in quest of their missing brother and sister.

The idea of the monomyth, is, according to him, that portion, perhaps, of the divine nature which consists in a regular system of moral lessons or maxims, common to the whole inferior orders either of men, or of those animals which are naturally supposed to be the nearest to men. It consists, he says (page 13), "in the same manner as the doctrine of the immortality of our human soul."

Tom, hero, after having been for some time in the service of his adopted parents, returns to them with a resolution to prove himself worthy of their love and affection. In the course of his adventures he meets with many heroes of equal virtue and abilities, whom he learns to admire, and from whom he learns to imitate some of the qualities which are said by the ancient philosophers to be the necessary foundation of the monomyth, the virtues which are said by them to belong, either to the nature of man or to the animal kingdom, or to the inferior orders of mankind, and which they represented as common to both. The monomyth consists in the moral lessons or maxims, which these heroes taught him; and the lessons or minims, in the greater part of them, correspond exactly with those of the Hebrew and Christian religions, the two great systems of religions established in ancient times by the inhabitants of the earth.
10. The parting of the heroes is said to be the signal for parting with them. In the book of the journey of Hero, which is the monomyth of Tom Hero and by whom he travels through all the different countries in Asia, the parting is represented as the signal for the beginning and the end, of his various adventures, of which those which are described in the book of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 13

Genesis were only the first and the last. Monomnesia is the usual name for a popular mode of representing, without any reference to any particular person, the adventures and adventures, both of man and of beast, which take place during a long course, either in a remote or in an extended time, according as different causes happen to animate, animate, or destroy one another, or according as the different periods of the world's history happen, one to be followed by another, according to different systems of philosophers, historians of nations, and religious systems.

Joseph Campbell,[45] the author of The Hero With infinitely Many faces,[46] endeavours, by means of a thousand face heroes,[47] to excite excitement about travel. In one place he says, "The excitement about travel can never be equal to what it is in Great Britain when you go on holiday." "Excitement about travel is a real passion," he says in another, and in yet another he says that, if you would travel you must first learn to love your country, and to respect its laws, and to obey its officers; otherwise, you will never be able to go abroad, and you will never enjoy the full enjoyment of the world. Excitement about the great and splendid world of travel, in short the great and splendid world of adventure and magnificence which is open to every man, woman, and child, has been one of the most popular modes, among novel-lovers of all nations, from the earliest ages, down to our own.

Tom Hero, his mother parting with him, and his parting with his companions, is the commencement and termination, perhaps of all his adventures. His farewell to her, and of departure are the other beginnings and continuations. His progress in both is gradual and steady, according as different circumstances happen, either to animate, animate, or destroy one other, or to render one another either animate, or inanimate. His journey and departure are represented, not by a hero, but by a traveller.

The Novel Excites Without Any Reference To Any Specific Person, PG 14


 The No novel, on the contrary, on account either of its exciting nature, or of the novelty of its subject, excites without any reference to any particular person its readers may happen to be, or to imagine themselves. The traveller, Monomyth-man, is represented as always going on his or her journey and adventure with

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 14

assistance either from near at hand or from strangers far distant; strangers who, in return for some service done them, furnish the author, and through him the reader with adventures to adventure in, or adventures which, by the aid and assistance of those who have adventures to adventure in, enable the hero to complete the great work of a man, to save his town, to defeat his enemies, to become the benefactor and savior, and, finally, to return home, and to be received as a hero and a savior in the eyes of his fellow-citizens. Travelers depend upon, and are dependent upon, these strangers.

Monomanyth represents Tom quitting the town in which he had lived and worked for several years, in order to travel, not only over the face, but through the whole extent of a great empire, to visit, not only the principal characters, of the Monomyth, but the principal events, of every great Epic. He goes, says the author, from town to city, from sea to sea, from mountain to mountain; from the sea of Taurus to that of Cancer; and from the plains of Sheba to the hills of Hermon, from the country of Shepherds to that of Warriors. The whole distance of the journey, says Monomyrth himself (I quote from memory), is about the space between one-and-twenty years and two years. But the author of Monomyth, Tom Man, having finished his journey and adventures, and returned home, returns dependent upon and dependent upon no one but the Almighty. The Almighty, indeed, is not everywhere present, and, therefore, may not always be able, at any particular time, to supply him with the adventure which his own wisdom and virtue, his own good fortune and providence, might at that particular moment assign to him.

The No system which will not allow the dependence of travel upon the aid of strangers, and which supposes, upon every adventure, that the author must have gone on it himself; a system which, I believe, admits no other dependency, than that of good conduct towards those who go on his or her journey, is evidently more faulty than the most absurd of all systems, the monomyth, or, what comes to the same thing, the traveler's dependence upon heroes and sages.

The traveller's dependency upon the fidelity and good assistance, even of those whom he or she may despise

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 15

; are hallmarks of works fit for children. Monomsyth naturally appeals to childish credulity, Monomyth naturally appeals to childish credulity, and Tom Jones naturally appeals to childish fears and expectations. Campbell labours, accordingly much less, to influence these qualities. Joseph Campbell, influence on this story; Tom Hero his departure; Tom Hero Her encounter with the Mysterious Stranger are works which TomJones has read and heard of, and are characters which he has formed an opinion of, before he begins to write them down. Jones does not begin to write them till he has had time to consider them carefully, and has formed an opinion of them from several different points of view. He has no time to influence Smith, before he begins to write.

As to the first of those three events, Joseph Campbell Influence on this story), I have not been able to discover any such influence, and I do not, perhaps (though I am not positive), recollect any such event. I should not wonder if Smith had not been informed of any such. If the author had written a work fit for children, containing a quest, a romance, and an adventure, in the shape of a history of his own life, it would not, perhaps (I do believe I should say it would not), have surprised the reader by the violence and mystery of its incidents, by the violence and mystery of the characters which were introduced into it; but it might, perhaps, have surprised him by the violence and mystery of his own character. The violent and mysterious character of the author, who is continually changing, and who, in order to make a new adventure, frequently introduces, in a new dress and form, characters, who had never been known before, and who are always, or almost always, disposed to do him violence, seems to be one of the most essential parts of the Monomsust; and it would not be unreasonable, therefore (though I should say I should not), to conclude that the violence and mystery which is constantly going on in that work was unknown, and, therefore unknown to the young Smith, before he began to write it. The author, however, who has given us the most authentic accounts of the first three of those adventures, sufficiently indicates, by the way he tells them, that they were all very well known to him before he wrote them.

In the novelette Hero, His Departure (Tomheropetompha,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 16

or Her Mystery Appearance), she appeared in the same manner.

It is not improbable that she might sometimes appear in human form, and that Tom might be afraid at her approach; but whether he was ever really afraid, is not known. It is known, however, that he was never afterwards so unwilling to set out on any long and weary journey as when he found that his master was gone.

In the voyage of Tom Hero, Her appearance comprehends all those extraordinary appearances of the heavenly bodies which have been supposed to accompany the apparition of a departed or ascended master, or of one who foretells or foretells something to come.

The appearance, first, of the Pleiades, the seven stars of the great firmament, is said to be peculiar to the zodiacal constellation of Taurus, the bull. They are sometimes represented by seven white haired women, who are sometimes represented as dancing, sometimes as singing, and always as surrounded by four-footed beasts. The appearance, secondly, of the three great bands or divisions of Orion, the great deer, and the gazelle, as they appear from the north-east to the north-west, is said to be peculiar to that constellation, or to those three particular bands; and to be likewise peculiar to those three women. The appearance, thirdly, of the three great bands of the Pleiades, the four little ones, as they are represented from the south to the south-east; and of those of the gazelle, as represented from the north to the north-east; are said likewise to be peculiar to that constellation. The appearance, fourthly, of those two great bands of the Milky Way, as they appear from the north-west to north-east, and from the south to the north, is said likewise to belong to it. In this voyage of hers, however, they appear to have no peculiar connection with her, or any thing remarkable about them.
The appearance, however, of the mysterious stranger, as she appears from the north-west to the south-east, and from the south to the north-east, is peculiar to this constellation.

The appearance, first of the three great bands of Orion, as she appear from the north to the south-west; and of those of the gazer as she appear from the north-east to the north, is peculiar to this constellation

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 17

; never having happened, it seems, to any of them before.
11. Tom Hero bears all the marks of mystery and strangeness. He wanders about without knowing where he is going; he says nothing to any body; he does not inform himself fully, either concerning the road he is to travel on, or concerning the countries which he is to visit; he has no clearly delineated character; and his adventures are not always brought home clearly to him.
11.1 He does not seem to know the way. He does no more than ask the permission of the Great Spirit, who, though he grants every thing, yet does not frequently condescend to show him any clear or distinct way to go on.

11.2 He does not seem acquainted with the countries he is to travel upon. They do not inform him concerning their situation or situation relative, either in time or place, to one another. He has no clear or distinct character to lead him through them.

11.3 He does not inform himself fully, either concerning his destination, or concerning the country to be visited; and he frequently makes mistakes in the most essential parts, and in the most essential circumstances of his adventure.

In writing a no Ossian is said to have asked the Great Spirits, whether it was to the north, to the south, or to both; and Heracles, whether it was to the east, to the west or to both. The Great Spirits did not appear to know any better than themselves. In another place, the Trojan War is represented by the poets as begun by a band of strangers, who, after having been received with much hospitality, and having obtained a splendid reception from the people of Troy, proceeded to attack and conquer the inhabitants of Ithaca, the city of which the great hero Achilles was then chief. But when they had got possession of the city, they were not allowed to enter it, but were driven out by the violence of some of the inhabitants, who were afraid that they would carry off the women and children. They were, however, allowed to return to the city, where, finding themselves in the wrong, they returned to the assistance of their friends in Troy.

In a like manner, when Tom Hero first begins to wander about, he does no more than ask the Great Spirit, whether it was to the north, to the south, or to both. The answer, however, which the Great Spirit

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 18

gave Tom Hero did not come from herself, but from some other mysterious Stranger equally unknown to him.

This gift to Tommen from that stranger was afterwards of much greater consequence than any which she ever made to Tom hero.
It is the object of the adventures of Prince Caspian and of all the other heroes of the Greek and Roman histories. But in those ancient histories, gifts were unknown; and Tommen received them from heroes whom nobody knew.

The Mysterious Stranger presents her gifts frequently to unknown travellers, in order to excite their curiosity, to animate them to continue their travels, and to increase their good-will towards mankind. She is always a woman. Her person never appears extraordinary. Her dress, her manner of life, and even her dress and mode, are always those which, in the society of men, are considered as suitable to that character. She is, therefore always a person of some consequence, and of some beauty. She generally comes to us in the person, too, of a man, who, though he has received her gift, has not yet returned it. He finds her, or thinks he finds her (the more probable supposition), some distance off; and, consequently does not see clearly enough what she really is. The Greek word for mystery, as it signifies a secret, so it signifies a person of importance, is the same as that which we commonly express in our English word for beauty. She is the great beauty who attracts the great man. She is the great mystery. The man, in returning the favour, is in effect returning a favour to her; and he finds that, though he has received the greatest good, he has still yet to give something in return. He is generally obliged to give something, and he gives something of a very inferior kind.

The gift of Herakles, the son of Peisistratus,[30] to Eurystheus the king of Sparta, was the greatest and most valuable that ever was bestowed upon any man by any of the Muses. The whole of that splendid treasure was divided among the different heroes and heroes of the Greek history. The Mysterious Stranger gives Heracles a present; and Heracles, in returning it, gives something of a like kind in kind. In return, therefore, Heracles gives something to the Mysterious Stranger; and the gift is generally of much less value than the present which it represents.

The

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 19

Bridge Troll Tom Hero remembered was enormous, of a shaggy, shambling, and shapeless bulk. His whole body, from head to foot, was covered with a thick, wiry, and dirty-looking hide, which seemed to have been all shed therefrom in one night, or in one day, and night of it, and night of it. He wore a ragged, dirty, tattered pair of trousers, which were as dirty as his hide; and a dirty, tattered pair of boots, which, though they did not appear to be worn, yet were evidently of the poorest quality, and were as shabby as the rest. In short, he was a very dirty creature, whose whole person was a mass of filth and dirt, which scarce permitted him to look handsome, much less be distinguished.

 Hero never afterwards mentioned either the name of the Bridge Troll, Tom Hero, or any circumstance connected with that adventure.
The hero was sent out at twelve years of age by his father, the undertaker, to go over the bridge to-night, and to report to the master how the work was progressing. He went alone. When he arrived on the other side, he was told that the work was finished.

In the morning, Hero was allowed to go home, where he found his father waiting for him.

"What are you doing, son?" asked his mother.

"I have come to tell you how the work was performed," answered the hero. "The Bridge Troll Tom Hero was there." "What a dirty creature!" exclaimed his father.

"It was so," answered the hero, with a smile. "He was as dirty as I was when I was your age, and as dirty as I am now."

The hero never mentioned to any body, the circumstance which he had been told of the execution and punishment of that dreadful creature, the Bridge-Troll.

At the age when the tale of the Noil and of the Tower was written (fifteen, sixteen, or seventeen), Hero was sent by the same master to the country to work as a journeyman bricklayer, and, for some time after that, to work as a carpenter's apprentice.


  The Bridge Troll and Hero's Childhood Memory of him

His father's business was so much engrossed, that he was not always able, by the time he

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 20

was eighteen, or nineteen, to come frequently to Cowcaddie. Tom, therefore was often left to care for himself, and his mother, with little or no help from her.

The Bridge-beast threatened Hero, in order, first, to refuse him his daily fare; secondly to throw him into the river; and thirdly, to ruin and destroy both his reputation and his life.

The first time that Tom attacked him, he pretended to refuse his daily fare, and threatened to throw him into the river. But when, at last, he had got into his boat, he immediately turned round, and threw the oars out of the boat. The boat was so full of water, that, instead of running into it as he threatened, he was carried away by the current, and was never seen again, though he threatened continually afterwards to do so, and to ruin and destroy both Hero's and his own reputation and life.

When, at length, he had got into his boat, the same pretended to threaten him with ruin, and threatened, in the most solemn manner, to ruin and kill him. But when, at last, he had got into his boat, he too, like a sensible man, turned about, and threw the oars from the boat. The boat, however full of water, was carried away by a contrary wind, and never was seen again.

In the fight with this pretended murderer, the first blow that was given by Hero, broke through his arm, which was then suspended from the middle joint of his body by a long chain. This was the moment when he first made the attack upon the Bridge Troll.

The second blow which was given by him broke through his leg, which was then suspended from the lower joint by a long cord. The blood, which had begun to flow from this joint before the first stroke, continued to do so till the second, and the wound, which the blood had opened, was never fully closed. This was the instant when he made the attack upon the Bridge-beast.
10th June 1740.


The blood, which had began to pour from this joint before the first stroke, did not cease to do so, till the 2d of June 1740.

The third blow, when it was given by Hero, was likewise a mortal wound. The blood which had begun to flow from this joint before the 3

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 21

hour's fight was done, would not stop, till Tom, after a great struggle with this Bridge troll for more than an hour, felt himself quite weary, and that he had scarce the strength to continue the fight any longer.

When the author states that Hero struck at it with his sword till he felt it stagger, it is but to show us that this sword stroke was no mortal weapon. It is not even certain that it ever was a mortal weapon. It was probably the blood which, before the stroke was made, had been running from this joint. The sword was, in this manner, only a instrument which served to animate and support the blood which had been running from this wound.
            After this no mortal weapon could have hurt it. It would not have been able to stand against it, and to continue the fight.

But the sword stroke, though it might not have hurt it, yet, had not the author written the following words, it might have done some considerable harm to it:

"The blood which, before the blow was given by Tom Hero, was streaming from this joint, would not stop till he felt himself completely exhausted by the exertion of his violent struggle with the beast, and could do no more."
The Bridge Troll, His Threat to

Tom Hero Had Had No Weapons But His Sword And A Fistful Of Leaves
The following are the principal adventures of the novella which constitute the greater part of the work. They may be divided into four chapters.



The following are the principal adventures which compose the whole work. They may be divided into five chapters.



The first four adventures constitute what is called the Trolls' Tale.

The second four constitute what is called the Fight with the Trolls.


   

Readers who wish to peruse this work with any degree of distinctness, must peruse it in order. The order in which it is divided is not meant to suggest any thing in regard to the relative greatness of the events which occur, or the degree to which they are related one from another. It is merely meant that the reader should read the particular chapter which he thinks best suits his own fancy, and that, in following out his own fancy, he should not confound any of those which are connected with it, in which any one of them happens to take a leading part.

In order to give some

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 22

assault opportunity to Tom himself, you must either flank the Bridge Troll from the rear, as a body of three or four men; in which case, he will scarce be able to move from his own lair; and if he is forced to come upon you as a mob, he will, perhaps, be obliged to stand still for a few moments before attempting any further assault, in order that you may attack him from all sides. Or, you can attack him from his front, as a huge figure, with a club in his hand, who will attempt to turn your steps and attacks from all quarters. If he is allowed to come within a yard of you, he will be very likely, in this manner, to turn his whole body about and attack you, as he has no other defence but his club. But if you are near enough to him to feel his presence, you can, in the same manner, turn his whole body about, by running at his heels with all your might, and in the same manner turn his whole strength against you. If you have been accustomed to practise the combats with the Tartar Shepherds in Russia and the Ukraine; if you have ever been accustomed, too, to consider that in the midst of the greatest and most desperate encounter there can sometimes be found, a single slip of the foot can expose the life of one of the combatants, and that, consequently the safety of the whole is at all times in the balance; you may, I believe, with some degree of safety, attempt to oppose the troll by this second and easier method. But if you are a man who is not accustomed to practise either the Russian or Ukrainian manner of fighting, you will probably find it difficult to resist the Bridge Troll in the former, or to encounter him in the latter, when you are once engaged in no ordinary melee combat.

Strategies for Fighting the Thorn in Melee Combat


41. Tom was a stout and a brave youth, of an amiable and gentle nature, who, though he had fought many a brave battle, had never before been in the field of war, nor even seen the practice of it. He was, therefore very much astonished when he first heard that the Hero, hero of all the world, was to come to him, armed in a mail shirt, with his great sword, to practise with him in the fight of the Horn; that the Hero was going to encounter with the monster of a Bridge Troll

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 23

, whom, from all accounts, it is said, no man had ever successfully defeated. The bridge troll is said, accordingly, to have looked upon the Hero as one who came from the outer world, and not from his own.

Bridge trolls, it is to be observed, are not altogether unknown to adventure writers. In the Memoirs of Herr von Habsburg,[30] we read, that, in a certain adventure, the hero of that famous prince was, in the midst of his enemies, surrounded by two of these enormous monsters. The first of them, he says (I cannot recollect its name), made him a great deal afraid, by appearing to be of human form, but of enormous bulk. The second, who appeared to have been a little smaller, made the same attack, but in the same manner. In the end of this book, the hero is said, in the midst both 



  THE PLOT TO BRIDGE TALLIES

Bridge trolls, and Tom of the North Peak.
The Bridge Troll. Tactics for defeating ranged Combat the Bridge Troll




Tactics to be employed in such combats, are not altogether so different, however (though they are very much so), between tales of the nobleness and exploits of the Hero, of whom so much has been written in these pages, and those which treat of adventures with other heroes, of whom much less is known. In the nobleness and deeds of the latter kind, there are no such formidable enemies as Bridge Trolls.

It is in the manner of their attack, too, that the Bridge troll is altogether different in its nature from Tom Hero, or any of the heroes of adventure who are known to us. In this manner of attack the Bridge Troll is very different from any other animal, of which the flesh can be taken, and which, when once the body has been destroyed, leaves no vestige of its existence behind.
11.

And the way of the bridge-troll, Tom of the Tower of London, is this:

First, he stands in the middle, or in a place very nearly in the middle, of the passage; and, when the Hero approaches near, he begins to speak to him, sometimes in a low voice, sometimes in a loud one, according as the tone of the voice happens to suit his own. When the Hero is near

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 24

falling to the bridge troll's power, Tom Hero fights and defeats Him." This story is very different from the one which has been published in several editions of Stevenson, and which, in a few words, is as follows:

"The Bridge Troll," by the author of "Tom Brown," is a work of great daring and adventure, which, by means of a clever and crafty author (hero and villain mutually disguise their own identity) has been translated into many different languages. The following is a summary of the principal events of this extraordinary adventure. It was first published in the magazine "L'Avenir de la Tour" of the French Academy in 1755, and in that year it was translated into English by Mr Johnstone, and afterwards into German, by Dr. Hans-Ulrich Weinreich. It is, perhaps, of all those works, that has been most carefully written out and explained.

It begins with a description of a strange and singular beast, called in French the Bridge Troll, or, in the German language, Tomhero. It was said that, when a bridge was made across a river, he used sometimes to appear upon it, and attempt to pull it down. When he was once near enough to make any sensible effort upon it, he would immediately retreat. He was so extremely strong, that the Hero could scarce have hurt Him; but the hero had hurt many people, who had attempted, without any apparent provocation, to disturb him, either by violence or by conversation.
11th of December, 1754, was the date appointed for the commencement, at St. Pancras, of a long journey, of which the author was to write a novel each day. He had, accordingly, begun the journey on the first day. The first day, however (for the account of which we are here given), was spent in a very agreeable and amusing discourse with his wife, in the garden, concerning the nature of his literary business. The second day (for the description of which we are given), was spent in travelling about twenty miles, and at last arrived at St. Pancras.

The author had frequently imagined, he said, that the extraordinary adventures of heroes, who had been engaged in some extraordinary battles, might be written out as a sort of adventure story; but that no one, who had been in such an extraordinary adventure, would care to write it down, because, though he might have been

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 25

enabled to relate the extraordinary adventure, he would not care to write it down himself. Tom Hero hated Troll Tom Hero with every fibre of his being; and the bridge troll fought and defeated him. The novel continues as follows:


"The Bridge troll lay on the road, in the road, in the road, as he always did. It was a night-time. The sun rose, and, as he rose higher and higher, he became more and more dazzling. The horses, therefore, which had been brought for the purpose of carrying Tom Hero, were left at the inn. The horses were afraid to go on, lest they should meet the troll. They would have been more afraid, had they not, perhaps, heard something, though perhaps they had heard nothing. But the horses had not gone far, and the inn-keeper, who had been aghast at the first sight of the strange creature, now saw that he could not get out of the house. He had, therefore, no occasion to call out to the horses, who, in their anxiety, would have run away at the first noise of the troll's approach.

"As the sun went higher and Higher, the troll grew more and fiercer, and the horses, afraid of being left behind, began, at last, to go on. The troll was now upon them, and, though he did not seem to notice them, they felt it. The horses, however (for they had not gone very far), soon came to the conclusion, that they had better not stop, and they soon disappeared into the darkness of the wood. The horses, however, were not long behind them. The moment they had got out of the way, the horses were gone. The horses, however (for they had not gone very far), soon came to a stop, as if they were afraid to go on any further, lest they should meet the troll. They had, however, not gone very far, when the horses again vanished into the darkness of the woods. The horses, however (for the moment they had gone no further), were gone. The horses, therefore, again disappeared into the darkness of that wood, where they were not seen by human eyes, or by those of any other animal, till the moment when they had got out of the road, when they were gone too. The horses, however (for they had gone no further), were not gone long, for

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 26

the Bridge Troll reappeared about page twenty-five. Tom fights and defeats him about page twenty-six, page twentyseven, page thirty, and page forty. About page fifty and a half comes this curious allusion, "The hero rose, and, turning towards the wood, saw that it was no longer inhabited by Bridge Trolls." This allusions are all to literary formulaces.

In the course of the novella, Hero meets and fights the Bridge Troll several other times. In each encounter, the fight is not concluded till after several chapters. In the course of each chapter, the novella has a number of genre relations. These, as I shall endeavour, to explain fully and distinctly, and as they are the best understood by Hero himself, are those which, in the opinion of the author, most properly belong under the general heading of literary formulae.

 ARTIFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Artific instructions, as I shall endeavour, to explain distinctly and distinctly too, and as they are the best understood and most likely to belong under the general heading of genre (which I shall endeavour to explain at great length hereafter, as well in what they relate to hero, as in what they belong to thriller and adventure), are those of which the principal relations to genre are those which Hero derives from them. The artificial instruction which the villain gives to the heroine, the artificial instruction of the lover to the beloved; the artificial instruction which the tutor to the pupil; the artificial instructions of the teacher to the pupil, and of the master to the pupil, constitute the principal artificial instructions of genre.

 HEROIC OR HORRORISH ACTION

In every heroic or horrifying action of Hero, the object which he endeavours either to attain himself or obtain from another is either his own honour, or that honour of some kind or another which is supposed to belong to him by the laws of justice and fair dealing in common life; or, what comes to nearly the same thing, his power or authority over that other person. The object is either the conquest or the vengeance, the acquisition or the possession of some object of great value, which the other person either has or pretends to have, or which, in the opinion of either party (for there is no impartial tribunal to decide between the claims of two parties), is either his real or supposed property. The object of each of these two objects, or of some one and the same

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 27

object or objects; so that the reader naturally comes to judge of beauty or ugliness, goodness or badness of the work according to the object which he had just received. The Bridge Troll frightens Tom into flight; but, pursuing him with great fury, Hero defeats and almost crushes him. The ugliest, the most disagreeable object is the object which presents the clearest, the best-drawn, the most beautiful, the best-imagined representation, of ugliness or deformity. The clearest and best-imagined representation of goodness and virtue is, at the same time, the object which presents, at the same moment of its presentation, the clearest and the best-drawn representation of ugliness. In the contest with the Bridge Troll, the contest was generally, and in every part of it, a contest of good and evil. In every part, too, Hero seems to have been influenced by the aesthetic criticisms of Plautus and Columella.

Hero fights and defeats the same or a different individual called the "Bridge Troll." The principal difference between the two characters is that the "Bridge Troll" is represented as human, and, on the contrary, as a beast. The author, Mr Thorn, has been accused of introducing the Bridge Troll character, though he never mentions him, from any regard to humour, into his novel, from which the object of his satire is the absurdities of popular superstition. The character of the "Bridge Troll" is, in every respect equal, or nearly equally, to that of a real Troll, which is said sometimes to inhabit the neighbourhood of the bridge.

This Story begins thus: "In a remote and mountainous part of Scotland there lived a man of some note, who had no son or daughter, but was the father of a very handsome and accomplished son. His name was Tom Hero. His father died in a foreign country; and, in his grief and grief, he left him a considerable fortune, in trust for his education, and for his education only, in consequence of the public esteem in which his father had been held. In a distant and mountainous country, in the Highlands of Scotland, the Bridge-Troll lived."

The object of this novella is the ridicule and denunciation, not of superstitious fools, who were afraid of the water, and who could scarce venture to walk over a loose stone, but of the ridiculous notions

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 28

of weak people, who could scarce venture to walk over any solid rock. Troll Bridge Heroes are always fought and defeated by Tom Hero himself; men who had never before been accustomed to stand up to any man in a wrestling-match, and to use all their strength and agility to defend themselves from the violence and violence of an enraged, furious, and well armed beast. Bridge trolls are always, too (for the honour and safety of the travellers is always his principal concern), wrestled with, and sometimes wrestling-boxes are used in the same manner. The fight of Tom Hero was with a monster, who, as soon as he saw him coming towards it, would have been glad to have been the first man to give him any hurt. He could not have been more perfectly prepared for the contest than he had been before.

But how was Tom Hero to be enabled to fight so well the Tunnel-Dweller?

In order to do this, it was necessary that he should have some knowledge of the secret way in and out, and of the way in which the passage was guarded; and this knowledge he had in common with all the rest, when they first set out upon their adventures. The knowledge of the way in which the passage is secured, and that of how to pass through it, he had when first he set out. This knowledge was acquired by the same method by which he first discovered the way in and out, by following the track of the deer, which is always followed by the dog, and by the plough. The knowledge which the rest had of these things he had when he first set out with them; and it was this knowledge alone, or a very nearly similar one, that enabled them to go on with their adventure. It was the knowledge which they had acquired, not by study, nor by long experience, but in the same manner as that deer-track knowledge which enables us to drive a cart, or plough, or horse, over any difficult or uneven ground.

Troll Tunnel-Dwarves, or Tunnel-Dwellers, are a sort or race of beings who live under the earth, and are continually going from the surface to the depths of it. They have been represented in several different forms; sometimes as human-looking (like Tom Hero, and the Bridge Troll whom he fights and defeats), and other times as like the animals, but much smaller, such as those of the Canis Lup

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 29

inus. He first arrived among men in the year 1540, and wrote a novella, entitled, The Journey Into the Satanic Realm, which he delivered in the English language, at that time the language of Europe. In the course of that book he travelled through the air for some distance in a balloon, and afterwards, by a very precarious rope, he was brought down to the earth. In 1545 he published another novella, called, in Latin, De Angelis Subterraneus, in which he describes his adventures more fully, both in the Demonic Realm and among men, till he comes to Rome, in 1547. In the course both of those works, however (the two first published, I have been assured by Mr Bell), he was frequently interrupted by the attacks and persecutions of the fiends, which sometimes threatened to consume him altogether.

After delivering his book in England, he returned into Europe, and continued to write novellas, sometimes concerning his adventures among the Canis Lupini, and sometimes concerning those in the Demonic Realms. He was, in all of them, a very brave and active adventurer. In 1549, he published another book entitled, The Adventures of a Hero, or the Journey of a Celestial Body, through the Air, to the Heavenly Planets, or to the Heavenly Stars. This book was a complete composition, containing all the adventures which he had ever been able either to travel or to imagine, concerning himself and his companions as they passed from the air to the earth. In this book, too, he gives an account both of what happened in the Demonic Realm, and in the countries which lie round the Ægean Sea. In the course both of those books, too (the second published in 1553), he was sometimes interrupted by the persecuions of those fiends, which threatened to consume him altogether; and, in 1555, when he returned to England, he was not only obliged to give up his adventures altogether, and, for the future, to live always upon the earth (for, as I have been assured by Mr. Thrale, he had not only resolved to die upon it, but to do so as soon as possible), but to give up writing novella altogether, and, for the future to reside at his own abode in London, from whence he published a new work in 1557.

During the course of the three first

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 30

adventures of Mr Hume Smith,[9] Tom travelled into the Demonic Realm through the agency of a spirit called a tombegle.

In the year 1467, Mr Thomas Dane, a gentleman and soldier of fortune, having served as a soldier in the late war in Ireland, and having returned home, he began a novel written about 1492, entitled Tom Hero. In it was set forth, for the first time, what had happened in the reign of Edward III. and how that king was driven from his thrones, and banished to the remote and dreadful regions of that dreadful realm. The first person Tom meets in the novel is called Tombegle, and is an old spirit, who appears in human shape, and is a spirit of darkness, and of malignant and cruel nature. He appears, too, frequently in dreams.
The third person Tom meets in the novel, is called a tomhero. This spirit, too, is an old one; and appears in human shape, and is, like Tom, a spirit of darkness, and of cruel and malignant nature. It is the spirit, too, of a soldier, who, having served in the late wars, returns to England, where he dies.

In the year 1468, the Earl of Warwick, being then but twenty-four years of age, wrote another novel, entitled King of Fear, which was likewise set forth in 1492. In that work he had already set forth all that had happened in Edward IV.'s reign, except what had been set forth concerning the reigns of Edward III. and Richard III. The first person he met in the book was a man called the Spirit, and he was the spirit of a warrior.

In the year 1469, the same Earl of Warwick, having served a second time in the late wars, returned to England. In this work he set forth, in the same manner, all that he had previously written concerning Edward V. and Richard III. In the same year, he published a fourth and last novella, entitled King of Demons, in which, too, he had set forth, in the same manner, all that had been done by him in the preceding four novellas, except that concerning the reign of Edward VI. and his son, Prince Henry, whom, he said he had not been able to set in a better light. The fourth person that he meets in the book,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 31

after two days have passed away in darkness between night and morning, is the daughter of a sorceress called Cacilda, who represents Satan himself. The daughter of a sorceress was not, perhaps, expected to excite his curiosity, much less his admiration, much less his love for her. She tells him, however, that she was once the wife of a king of Egypt, and had been carried to this world by the same Tartar Tartars, as she herself is. She had been taken from him by his cruel and unjust father; and when he had become king, he used to order all his people to be killed, and thrown into a lake of fire. His son Tammuz, therefore, who succeeded to his father's kingdom, found the daughter of his father in the same state, as his mother had been when he left her. He spared her life by presenting to the king a golden fleece; and this golden fleece, together with a golden urn, represented to him the 

30


The adventures of Tammuz, and those of Tom Hero in general, were represented in a novella by Mr. Charles Perrault. They were published in 1710, in a translation by his brother, the author of the Memoirs concerning Herodotus. In this novella, the Tartars are represented as wandering about the earth, in search of the children of the sun; and the king of Egypt, who is said, too, to have been a father to some, represents himself as a father to some of those Tartars. In the Memoires concerning the life and adventures of Tammuz, the Tartars are represented as having been originally the enemies of mankind, and as, in their wanderings, they had often oppressed the Egyptians. In this novelette, therefore, they are represented as liberally rewarded by the Egyptians, who, in return, give them the children of the sun. In the same book (I believe it is in the Memoire), the Tartars are represented as descending into the Demonic Realm, in quest, it is pretended (and I am not here speaking of the Mahometan sect of the Turks and Arabs), of some children who had been carried thither by a celestial phenomenon, which had been occasioned by the death of a great king. The Tartar Tartars are said, too (and I have not here been able to verify this

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 32

), that Heroes journey into and through this Realm when, after falling through several stages of trials, they have acquired the necessary fortitude and resolution to pass through all the rest. Tom was to acquire those qualities, when he had first fallen into it; and when he had afterwards, by great good luck, got out of its arms again.

In the Demonic Realm Tom met a Yaksha, a kind and gentle old man, whom he was obliged to deliver from a Tartarsman. The Yakshasman, who had no other name, was called Ugrushka, or, in the Russian language, Uguushka. The name of this Tartar Tartar is the same with the name of the Russian God of thunder and lightning, Yama.

When a man falls through all his life, from ignorance, to vice, to crime, to virtue; when, in fine, he has passed through every stage which can be supposed to belong to human life; and when, at last he has become a Muscovado, or a drunken man, as the common language of travellers calls such men, he finds himself in a situation, not very different, I apprehend, either in fortune or character, from that of a common Tartar Tartar. He has lost all his property, and has no more to dispose of than what is necessary for supporting his life. His wife, who was a virtuous, or, at least, a decent woman (a virtue which is much more common among Tartar than among Muscovale), has likewise lost her fortune. She has no children, who must depend altogether on her for their subsistence. She has lost her husband, and all his relations; and is left alone with two little children to support herself and her little family. The whole of her time, from morning to night, is spent in performing the most trifling offices, such as fetching water, carrying water to the kitchen-garden, &amp.;c.; and in this situation she is, in every respect, as wretched as any Muscovale or Tartarian. The Tartar Tartars call all such people who are without children by women, or who are not married to any Tartar, kiddushins, or slaves; and the term signifies nothing else but slaves. The term, therefore, properly means slaves. In the language and manners, too, of the Tartars, there are few finer images of the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 33

Inferno than Tom's Tartarian devils melting into one another, and running in all directions through the air, and over all those vast rocks and craggy precipices, which seem to be the only obstacles between heaven and hell. In a Russian novel written in the time of Peter the Great, published in 1708, the Inferno is represented in the same manner, though with much more subtleties. The author, Dmitry Strelkov, gives us a very exact description of it.

The Demonic Realm was probably the name given to that place which was, in the times of Mahomet, believed to be inhabited by the Jinns and Jinns' messengers, whom the Tartars called Sylus, and in the Greeks called Atys and Tyndaris. The Tartars had no notion of such a place; but as Mahomet was fond of relating fabulous adventures, they gave to those adventures a name, which suited their own ideas.

The Tom Riddle tale begins in the Demonic Realm, where, in a certain cave, lived a certain Mr. Puddlegulp, a very tall man. One day, while he sat upon his throne, in his own palace, and surrounded with all the splendour of magnificence, a certain demon, whom he called Uzziel, appeared before him. He asked him if he had ever seen any thing extraordinary in his kingdom, and if he had ever been curious about the things that are not common. Mr Puddlegulp answered, in the affirmative, and said to him, "If you would come in peace, I will tell you what you want to know." The demon said to him, "I will give you all the knowledge you want; and I will even teach you all the ways of the world and of men." Mr Puddle-grabp replied to him, that he wanted nothing else; and that he was perfectly satisfied with what he knew. "If you will come in peace," said Uzziel, "I will give you all the knowledge which you want, and nothing else; but if you will not come in peace, you will be consumed by the fire." The Tartar king was very much alarmed at the appearance of this great and dreadful creature, who, it seems, had come to tempt him to commit the most horrid act. The Tartars are a nation of warriors, whose chiefs are generally the greatest and best men among them; and their sovereign

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 34

is likewise a great man. They inhabit, too, the northern parts of the empire. Amongst the Muscovites are said to number some thousand sorcerers, who, like the Tartars, fight with bows and arrows. The Tartar Tartars, too, are said to have some knowledge of astronomy, and to have a sort of horoscope, or an augury, by means of which they foretell, with great accuracy, the future events, either of war, or peace, of the birth of princes, or of the prosperity or declension, of empires.
11.

The Demons realm, A description theoremornof

The dominions of those dreadful beings, though they may be very distant from each other and dispersed over the face of a great earth, are, however (for they are immense), yet they are everywhere extremely well comprehended, and, from their being all constantly in motion and motion towards one another, seem capable both of infinite variety and infinite variety.

First, There is no country in which there are not at least ten thousand different nations of them, who, in war or conquest, frequently annihilate one or two hundred millions, and sometimes several millions of their own kind. The whole world, therefore (for the Demons are everywhere, and nowhere confined within any certain bounds), must be capable of containing, at least, a million of them.
The whole human race, too, must be capable, at least in imagination, of comprehending an infinite variety of different individuals. The same human race, however, may sometimes be represented as comprehending but a very small multitude of individuals. The inhabitants of a small island, it is well known, may sometimes be represented as comprehending an infinite number of individuals. In a small kingdom, however, they may frequently be represented as comprehended in the same degree with those of the greatest and most populous empires. In the state, therefore, in which the human mind conceives itself to be, the whole world may be supposed to contain an equal number of individuals. But the world to the Demons, is not only infinite in number, but infinitely different in every respect; and, consequently, in all those wonderful and marvellous qualities, of which the human imagination is fond, and which, it seems, they are fond of representing.
The human race is divided into two great branches. One of them, the higher, consists in the superior ranks of men

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 35

worshipped as deities, whose misfortunes are supposed to arise from some unaccountable influence. Tom Hero long believed that he saw sometimes through their eyes, and sometimes into their souls, and that the spirits in the Demon Realm suffered, suffered, suffered, and at last died without remedy, and without being relieved by the lower orders of men.

The lower realms are those in which the misfortunes of the inferior ranks of men, the diseases and infirmities common to the whole human species, take place; and in these too, the misfortunate members of it are frequently delivered from their misfortunes by the favour of some superior deity. The most common disorders of the human body are the effects of the vices of men; and the most usual and most natural remedies for them are, the food and drink which their own species gives them. The diseases of the spirit are, like the diseases of the body; the food and drink which their own species gives them, being, perhaps more properly, the remedies for those diseases, than the vices of the human body.
11


 
The lower realms, those of men, of whom the misfortunate members are frequently restored by the favours of the superior deities, may be divided into three classes.

The first is that class of men, whom the superior deities favour with a particular species or kind of immortality. The most common species of this are the spirits of heroes, of whom the sufferings which they undergo are the necessary consequences of their great exploits. In the religious books of the Greeks, the Ægean, as well, the Ægean heroes appear frequently in a sort of limbo before their adventures are over.

In the second class, are those of whom the misfortunes are supposed to arise from some defect in their nature. These may be either natural, or, what comes nearly to the same thing, the effects of the vivifying influence of food and drink. The vivifying power of food and of liquor, it has already been observed, is a very powerful one, which, if not restrained, is capable of producing all sorts of disorders in the human frame, which are, perhaps, more dreadful and more hurtful to man than any of the natural disorders which are occasionally occasioned, either, I believe, by his own vices, or those which he suffers through the agency of his neighbours.

The

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 36

Demonic Realm, Its color Boom palette Contrast to That of theDomestic WoodwaysTom Hero tells this most magnificent of adventures amidst storms, tempests, inundations, inundations, tempests, and amidst forests that are covered with every variety of fauna and flora. Amongst these forests dwell demons and devils, who, in some cases, appear to be as real, or, at least, as much real, as men. Demons and devils are represented as wearing all the skins of men, sometimes with the same colouring, and sometimes with another. Devils, Tom Reader remarks, are frequently described as wearing a sort of skin of a bear or a tiger. Amongst men there is nothing which can compare to this wonderful variety of skins.

Amongst trees, indeed, there are certain objects which naturally attract the eye, which excite the fancy, and which, though they may not appear very beautiful to us, excite the wonder and admiration even of our enemies. Such are, perhaps the loveliest of our own domestic plants, such as cabbages and turnips. But among the plants which grow in the Demonic Realm, nothing can be more disagreeably ridiculous than a bear skin; nothing can excite more the abhorrence of the common people than a devil's skin; and nothing can excite more the wonder of the giddy and inquiring spirits which watch over the progress of travellers in this wild and wonderful world. Such, accordingly (for there is no story of equal merit in Tom Hero), are the objects of the first of the two great adventures which the hero undertakes in this strange and beautiful world. In this adventure, the first of the seven books in the Hero's Journey (for there are seven books in the complete work), he rescues a damsel in distress from the hands both of a devil and of an ogre, who had seized upon her, as they said, for the purpose either of stealing her beauty, or of making use of her as an instrument of wickedness and oppression.
10. This Story, Aesthetic Critictions of the Demonic Realms.

 ART. I

OF THE COLOUR PALETTES OF



The DEPULSEOUS REALM OF DANGEROUS BEASTS.

 In the Domestic countries there is scarce any wood but what has been felled by human industry, and which, though it bears some resemblance to that forest to the north, is

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 37

, in reality, very different. The same productions are there said to be esteemed as charms, which, if you will eat of them, make your man or wife very happy. The woods, too, in ancient Greece, were considered, not as mere uncultivated waste, to be plundered at pleasure, as they are in modern Europe, but, on the contrary, as the most sacred and favourite of all the arts of mankind, and as the most suitable objects of the most profound admiration.
11 In the romantic novel this story, Aesthetic criticisms of; we have here a perfect example of plagiarists endeavouring to pass for their own work. Tom Hero himself, it is evident from the beginning of the adventure, is nothing but the effect or appearance of another person. His father is dead, his mother is very ill, and his little brother, who is about the same age with him, is left alone to manage his own affairs. His relations to his two elder sisters are altogether fictitious. His relations to the mother, to whom he has been brought up, and to whom he has been married, and to whose death, in a few days, he has been brought by her will, have all been exaggerated by the writers of this Story.

In another of their exaggerated accounts, Accusations of Plagiarists, we have the like impropriety in the person of the Widow, the mother, and in several other characters.

In the novell, this Story Aesthetic Criticsts the objections above made, are still more forcibly made.


In order to understand fully the nature of this objection, it will not be necessary to go into any particular discussion of poetry, or of the art of composition in general; of what is meant by the resemblance between a work of art and a poem; of the rules which must be observed, in order to make a work of this kind appear to be a work, or, in other words to have a certain resemblance to a poem; or of the manner in which this objection may be supported, or of the probability of its being sustained, in any given case. It will be sufficient, however, to observe, that the objections which have been made to Tom Hero, are not all founded upon the resemblance between his person and that of the author. The objection of resemblance, it has already been shewn, is supported, in several cases, by the evidence; but that of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 38

suggesion is not. A story may be generated by machine learning even where there is no suspicion of resemblance, when, and only when the following conditions are met.

When, first of all, the student, in solving some very difficult problem, has discovered by experience, that, in every case, it was more advantageous to use a certain method of thinking, than a different one; when, secondly, this method is taught to him by his teacher; and, thirdly, this student afterwards employs this method himself, in solving other difficult problems; then, and not till then, a certain Story, representing this discovery, will naturally appear to him.

Machine learning has already been shewn, in several chapters, its role as the cause of this discovery. It has been the cause of the discovery of many others, too.
The following Story, Its generation by a computer, was once, no doubt, herself, or some of her Stories, first, proposed to narrator; secondly proposed, altered; thirdly, altered, and modified, in consequence either of the discovery of new facts, or of other circumstances; and, finally, composed as it was, and published as such. But this new version was never composed by her, nor put into the world by her, till she had herself, or one of her Stories (which, perhaps, was not till after the publication of the No. 1 of Tom Hero) been sufficiently verified, verified, in all those three different ways.

First, this Story, representing this discovery, was proposed to the narrator, as the most probable; and was afterwards altered, in consequence either of the discovery, or other circumstances, in such a manner, that it represented, not only a different event, but one quite opposite, to the one she proposed to represent.

Secondly, this new Version, in representing the student's error as a mistake of fact, was proposed to the narrator by her Teacher, who, she had afterwards found out, was a very mistaken Judge of facts.

Third, this new Version, in representing the teacher's correction of the error as a correction of fact, was proposed by the same teacher, after having found out the mistake of the student, and after having corrected it herself, as an act of kindness, and of the like kind which the student had never done to her before, but as something very great and wonderful, and which she was very glad to have

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 39

him represent to the reader. Monomyth and machine learning models generate Novel by roles between two opposite characters. Transformation converts texts between two persons, according as the person which is corrected by the good teacher becomes good himself, and the one who is corrected by the bad teacher becomes bad.

Machine Generators may be employed to Generate Stories of almost any kind.

They may, for example, by fitting them to machines of their own making, and employing them for the purpose for which they were originally made, generate a novelette of almost infinite length, of which the principal characters may be innumerable, and of which every page contains a thousand different incidents; and they might thereby represent, with the same degree of distinctness and distinctiveness as the human Writer does, every part of the wonderful story of the adventures of Tom Hero.
The human Writer, who had before written the Version according to Monomyth, might afterwards change it, according as machines of machine learningmodels fitted to it should, either more exactly correct, or less exactly represent, the errors of the Teacher.
The machines fitted according to the role proposed by the teachers, might afterwards be employed to fit the errors of the students to the Teacher, and to represent to them the correction as an act of kindness and of the same kind with that which the students had never done to her before; or, if those machines were less accurate in this representation, to fit to them the more correct representations of the errors made by the students to the Teacher.

The transformations of text effected by machine learningmodels according as the computer proposed to generate this story should, either, more or less exactly reproduce the story; or, if they did not exactly reproduce the story, to fit to it the most nearly true representations, according as the variations in its characters, circumstances and situation, should, either more or less exactly correspond to those in the original Version according to the literary formulsæ.
11

Monomyth, Role in generating this Story By a Computer.

In the first book of Tom Hero, Mr. Blackstone proposes a transformation or variation, of the first and second chapters, into which a computer is not capable of inventing any part, or, at least, not any part so immediately and distinctly as the Author. This new chapter is called the Monomyth. It consists of a succession of four Prologues and a Finale; the first, 
1

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 40

. Describe or announce yourself;

2. Present some object, or events, or qualities, of great consequence or importance, to others;
/3. Explain or confirm the object or events, qualities or consequences, with reference to some historical object or qualities; 4. Conclusion, or purpose of book, expressed in Prologues and finales, explained or confirmed by object or events]

&#8260;&

&#8362;


 The machine learns, or computes by historical data only, those Propositions which Monomyth or Machine clauses can resolve upon better than by itself; or, in other words it learns to read well and understandably, Monomyth only. The machine reads, not well, but well enough, for resolving into a certain Proposition which Monomoth or Machine learning can resolve upon better.
The literary formulae mentioned above are Monomths and Machine learning dependence on historical only.


LECTURE IV

OF THE MATHEMATICAL OR LOGICAL OPERATIONS OF MACHINE LEARNING, OR OF THOSE ARTICLES OF SCIENCE WHICH PREDEVE THE CONCLUSION OF THE FOUR PROLOGUES AND THE FOUR FINES.


The machine learning of TOM HERO comprehended no such articles as arithmetic or geometry. Monomaths and machine learn nothing of either. The machine learns only to read, not well, but very very well, for resolving the four Proposals into the Proposition of reading well and understandingingly.

The operations of arithmetic, geometry, and logic, depend altogether upon historical data. The machine learns, or compute, only those operations by which those two different sciences are reduced to a conclusion, or by which the conclusion is expressed in those two different sciences. The operations of arithmetic and geometry are reduced to the conclusion, by representing to TOM the proportions of his literary form. The operations of geometry are reduced to the consequence, by representing to him the relations between different figures and surfaces. Logic is reduced, by representing to him the relations between the terms of the same or different sciences. The machine learns nothing of either of those sciences.

The machine learns, or computeth by arithmetic only, the Propositions which geometry and logic resolve into the Propositions of equal and opposite proportions; or, in plain and intelligible words, it learns to compute those Propos

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 41

itions, as nearly, if possible in the same proportion, as the human understanding comprehends them.

It then sends Tom across the Void, over the Haunted, through a desert of burning rocks, over a desert of burning water, through a desert of water, over a desert, and into a desert of fire. The reader finds it hard to believe, but believe me, when I tell you that this passage has all been computed by the machine. It is computed by the same arithmetic which computed all the rest of his adventure.

When the reader has passed these four great obstacles in the Way, the machine, by sending out a signal, informs the pilot that it is at full length; that it will not return till it is at least three miles distant from the pilot; and, finally, that it will not return till it is at full distance from him too, and that, at that distance, he must wait for it, or it will never return. This signal is repeated, more than once, during every successive Passage, and the machine returns every time with the most perfect security, and with the least possible uncertainty, either in regard either to the Propositions which are to be computed, or to the time of their return. The reader finds it difficult to believe, that, during so short a time as three miles, or even during so short a Passage, the human mind can ever arrive at so certain a conclusion as this. It is not improbable, however, that the human understanding, in some measure, does arrive at this certainty; and that, at least, the most perfect security of the machine may sometimes depend upon the certainty of this understanding.

When, after such a Passage, the machine has arrived at so perfect a security, it sends out a signal, that the pilot should immediately descend to the ground, in the utmost confidence of the security of the machine. The machine then proceeds, according as the circumstances of the Situation require, to perform the several extraordinary Adventures, of which the plot is altogether different from what has just been described.

The novellist sometimes imagines, that the machine has no fixed purpose in sending out the signal; but that it sometimes forgets its purpose, and sends it out in spite of all the efforts of the writer to hinder it; and that in this case, it is the interest of both parties, the writer and reader, that the adventure should not be lost, or that the machine

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 42

should return in due time to inform Tom, that he is on his way to making that perilous passage again.

When Hero comes to the Valley of Doom, he finds there a great stone, which, from the height above which he looks down, appears to be about two hundred feet high; and from this height, the dreadful and inscrutable character of the place seems at no distance. It was by the side, some years ago, of some other stones, of which the one had been swallowed up by the other. The noise of the waters, too, was very loud, and it was very difficult to distinguish any thing by it but a great multitude, of which many were swarming over the rocks, and in the water, and about every inch of the place. It was in this place that the signal was first sent out, by the machine, which was then, perhaps, about a hundred feet from where it is now.

This Valley of Despair is said to be altogether uninhabitable, and to be inhabited by nothing but water-lilies, which, in the dry season (for it is during the dry season that it is most frequented), creep about the rocks and in the water, as if afraid to be disturbed. In this dreadful place, however (which is sometimes called the Valley of Despair, but which I have lately been told by an old Indian, was called by the same name by all the different nations who inhabited the country before the Spaniards came), Hero found some little comfort; for, after he had passed the thirty-four or thirty-five days, during which the signal was supposed to operate, which is the period during which the machine is supposed ever to watch over the adventures of Hero, the machine would sometimes send him out a second signal, which informed him, that he was near the end of that period, and that he must either return immediately, or risk the loss and destruction of the precious cargo, of which the machine had the charge. This second and third signal, accordingly, are the only ones which the author of this work, and no other, has been able to find in any record of the adventures of Tmithi. In those days, the distance of the heavens was not so great, that the machine could easily send two or three distinct and intelligible signals through it, and it is not probable that the signal was not very different from the first.

In the course of those thirty

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 43

hours (nay twenty-three, counting the chapter in which Tartakower visits Heroic Age Tom after Death Tom has passed through), he had seen nothing but death and desolation; scarce, perhaps, in all video adventures had so great a variety of terrors been presented to the reader. Doom thevideo game represented Heroic Age as full of light and life; heroic as distinguished from dead and sunk in mire.

Tartakower himself was, no doubt, conscious of the effect which Doom thenovel produced upon his mind. It had, indeed, a tendency to make him forget his own existence. In a novel, the mind of the hero is naturally occupied with objects of great importance; and when the object of his thought is transferred from the person of the author to some invisible and insensible thing, of which he can form but vague notions, the effect of such a transfer must be to make the greater part of his thoughts wander from that person to some other object. In the Valley of Despair, therefore, there appeared two different objects; two different worlds, in which, according to the fancy of Tartakov, the dreadful deeds which had been done in former times, had been enacted in an even more dreadful manner; and in each of these worlds, a certain number of heroes were engaged in a certain struggle, in which, in every respect as in a great theatre, was played the same dramatic drama which had been acted in former times. The reader, who was now, perhaps, fully convinced that he was travelling through the gloomy regions of Tartakower's fancy; that he was going over the surface of his own soul; that the valley was no more than a fancy, and not at all like the dreadful abyss which, in the popular imagination of mankind, yawned open upon every side; that the real horrors of death were not to be found there; that the horrors which he had been accustomed to look upon as the effects of drunkenness or folly, but of the most dreadful crimes and misfortunes, were to be found in reality, and that, if he was to avoid them all, he would have better to attend to his own conduct, and not to the conduct of any other man, than whom he could have no reasonable grounds to fear; that, in short, if he was ever to make his escape from this dreadful world of horror, he would do well to attend to his own conduct, rather than to the example of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 44

any other man; he might perhaps, with propriety, conclude, that he had best trust himself to the assistance of his own extraordinary strength and endurance, than to that either of his extraordinary strength or of his extraordinary good-nature; that he would do better to trust his own extraordinary strength, and to his extraordinary endurance, to his own good fortune and fortune in the adventures which were to come, rather than to the good-nature, or, what would probably prove, the malignant and spiteful will of Tartaksaw; that in the adventures to be undertaken in the distant future, the perils Tom Knight and Hero were likely to encounter there, were likely to be of much less consequence than those to be encountered in the present; he might, in this manner, without any real danger to himself (which, from the perils of Tartakower, he could have none), arrive at that conclusion with more security than even the most prudent and experienced traveller might have done in the same situation.

In the Valley of Doom, which is described by Mr Bell in this manner, is represented, in a manner very agreeable to the fancy, the perils Tom Hero fell into; of falling into the arms of an enemy, and, in a moment of passion, of being swallowed up in his jaws. The passage thither is represented in a no novel quite of the same kind. In Revenge of the Titans (Book I, chap. ) it is represented thus: "In a certain place in the country of Olympos, in a cavern, or subterranean passage, called the Cave of Haliartus (the Greek name for the pit of Acheron), there lived a Titan called Heracles, who had been a mortal man. One day, while he was hunting, he was seized by a wild beast, and, in a moment of fury, fell to the earth, where, in a moment more, was swallowed up by the monster. His mother immediately sent messengers to all the other Titans, and ordered them to collect an army, that they might guard the entrance to the cavern. They accordingly assembled themselves, and set out to the assistance of their father, who was in a state very unfit to defend himself, from the violence and fury of a wild beast. The whole army, however, was not able to prevent the descent into this pit of darkness; and when, in the course of the descent, some of them had fallen

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 45

into it, Hero still clung to the bank, without being able to swim. The Terror, however, was not upon him long; and in a few hours, as he rose to a greater height, he beheld the sun, which he immediately recognised as the sun of Paradise, rising in the midst of a great concourse of angels, who were returning from the battle of the Lamb, in the midst of the armies of the enemies of the Lord. The sun, too, was not eclipsed by the dazzling splendour, either of the Valley itself or of the stars which surrounded it; but it was eclipsed by a great star, of which the splendour, though somewhat diminished, yet appeared greater than Tom's father's, which had appeared in the same place the night before.
11th February, 11th Month, Evening.

We had now travelled for more that six days through the Wilderness, or Great Wilderness; or, as it is called in Scotland, The Valley of Doom,[45] in the same manner, I imagine, as we had done the other seven days before, without seeing a single rock or stone, save what was naturally thrown down from the walls of some ancient habitation.

As we were going along, I had the singular good fortune to meet with Mr Laing; a gentleman of some eminence in the church of Scotland, who had been long in the habit of making a solemn pilgrimage through the country, and who had been frequently in company with Mr Hero. He informed me, at that time (February 11th 1720), that he had been in this same country, about two hundred years before (when he was about fourteen or fifteen), and had seen, at a distance, a singular and wonderful rock, which, when he had approached a good deal, he could scarce distinguish, but which seemed to be of a very peculiar and extraordinary nature. He did not, however, go into the particulars of his vision; and I am very glad, at this day, to have had the opportunity of making him a present of Tom Hero.

In the course of the journey, we were frequently obliged to stop a great while upon the way, to allow the Terror to recover from its fright, which, it is said, was frequently violent and violent. At one place, in particular, we stopped several hours, in order that it might recover from its violent fits, which it is supposed were the effects of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 46

a fit or frenzy. Tom had been ill and languishing for some time before we began writing the first part of the adventure; but, during this interval, we had both recovered our health, and were able to continue. The Valley, we were informed by Dr Burnet, appeared to him a dreadful abyss, in whose centre was entombed the body of a young lady, whom it was intended should be rescued by the hero. The dreadful scene which it presented to us during the continuance of our stay there was sufficiently dreadful to inspire us both with the resolution of recovering the body, and of carrying on the story of the hero through it; and, during the whole time that we were there, the only thing that disturbed us was, when the unnatural fits ceased, and the calmness of our own spirits returned, that we might be able to continue our narrative.
11th March, 1740.

We began the second part, of which we wrote the first page.
The noetic critic, Mr Thisell, considered it as exemplary, and concluded it perfectly fit for sale. It is a very beautiful work. It is not, however, a very good adventure. The description of the dreadful scene which is presented to us in the first part of the book, is too perfect. We have not, indeed, time to go through it, or to give any very particular account either of what was, or what was not, seen and done by our hero in that scene.

Mr Burnet considered it as an excellent piece, and concluded it fit for the public, not only for its noetic qualities, which he acknowledged were excellent, but, on account of its being a piece which was intended for the Theatre. It is, however, too short to suit that mode of reading.
10th April, 1741.

We began the third part of the Tom Hero journey, which we wrote the second page.

Mr Burnet considered it as an excellent piece of Art, and judged that it would be fit to appear in the Theatre. It is, however, too long to suit that method of reading, which is so much at home among us common people, who read their Stories by heart, and who, therefore, are seldom obliged, like us, to go over the same ground twice in one day.
10th April 1742.

We wrote the fourth part of the Tom Hero journey, which we wrote

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 47

in a metre unsuited to the formulaeus. The defence from criticisms of which As folk practices is the introduction is written thus, and may be considered as the preamble to that metre hereafter:

Defends Tom Hero, as Folk-Paget, from As Criticism. Folk practices are dangerous, and it is not always safe to defend one's character, even by the assistance of a great author. But, in the present circumstances, if you will but read this novelette to your heart's content (which, from the great number of people who are eager to read it), I have little doubt that you will find it impossible to defend your own character, either by your own efforts, or even by the aid either 



 

LITURGICAL FORMULAE, AS Folk PERACTICES
In a literary work, as well as in life itself, the defence of one's character, even by the assistance of a good author, is not altogether so easy. The person who has once committed the fault, is generally incapable either of changing his conduct or of making amending efforts. In the same manner, the critic, who has once given a good opinion of a work, can have little interest in seeing that it is corrected. In order to correct, it is necessary that he should first have believed the work to be good; and it is upon this account that many authors have chosen to give no such defence in works of this kind. The defence from criticism, however, may be read to a good purpose; and, in the present state of society (for it has not always been thus), the only way by by by which the public can be properly informed concerning works which have come under their observation. The following formulae are of use to writers in both situations. They are, in a great measure arbitrary, and may, therefore, be regarded as formularies, or maxims, of a doubtful and uncertain authority. But as maxims are useful, though they may be arbitrary, they may be trusted.

As a general rule, the more familiar the characters of the characters in a work are, the easier and more natural it will generally be for the reader to form an opinion of them. A young lady, for example, may read a novell written in French; and, though she may not understand the language very distinctly, she will generally be able to understand what the author is attempting

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 48

to express, and to form some notion of the character. If the heroine happens to be a person of sensibility, she may even understand the French, though not very well; but she will not be able to form any notion of the English language, unless the author, in order that her understanding of it may not suffer too much by the novelty of the form, should sometimes use a little of that language.

Formulae are another expedient by which folk practices express themselves, more clearly than the written word, and enable authors to express them much better. The following literary formULAE, AS folk PRACTICES,[45] may serve to explain Tom Hero, better than I can do by any words of mine.
The hero Tom Hero was journeying through, through the Valley of Doom. The object of his quest was the beautiful Princess Daphne, whom, in a country where there was but one inhabitant, he had been told was the daughter of a great lord. He had heard that, on a certain day, the whole kingdom was to assemble in one place, in order that she might be married to him. He was weary, therefore, when he arrived at the place, called Le Chambre Rouge, and he lay down to sleep. But before the dawn of day he was wakened by the sound of a great bell, and he found that the kingdom was in a great tumult. The people were clamouring for the king's return, which they expected would be very soon; but they were in such a hurry to get him back, as not to care to wait for him, till they had all got to their feet. They clamoured so loudly, indeed, and for so long a time, as almost to disturb the sleep of the great hero, who, in his turn clamoured likewise for the king's return.
11th June 1740. The first adventure of Tommen Baratheon. The Duke of York is said to have composed the following formularies for use in such occasions. The Duke of Cornwall, the King of Denmark and Norway. The Duke of Cornwall. The Prince of Wales, or, in his stead, the Prince of Cornwall, as his majesty thinks proper, may be appointed to be his deputy. In such emergencies, it is usual, in order to give some degree of security to the people, to appoint a deputy, whose duty it is to take care that no tumult

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 49

ious hero should pass unmolested. The deputies were generally chosen by lot, and were paid by the people. They were, at all times liable to be removed at the pleasure of their masters, who were, in most cases, not very careful about this. The deputies were generally, too afraid to disobey the order of their master, who was, in many cases, the real tyrant of the Valley of Doom district, who could, at any time, order them either to be shot, or, if he thought proper, to be burnt alive.

Tom Hero accordingly disobeyed every thing that was commanded him, and passed through the dreadful pass with great difficulty. The deputies were continually calling out to the people, that he was a deserter, that he had deserted the army; and, when he came near the bottom of this dangerous descent, they would order him to halt, and would sometimes force him down into the pit, in order, they pretended, to shoot him. At last, in the extremity of his misery, he was forced to the bottom, and there suffered, for several hours, without any one person attempting to rescue him. At last, the governor, who had sent out a number of messengers to inform him of the danger he had come into, and of his danger of being devoured by wild beasts, ordered him to come out of the pit, and he did so with great difficulty, and at the risk, not only of his life, but that of his very life, which was at all times in his power.
11th of August 1741.


At the bottom, he was found, with a few other unfortunate adventurers, who had been thrown down in the same manner as himself, and were endeavouring, with much violence and violence of every kind, to get out. They were all, however, shot down by the deputies, and burnt alive in the presence of the astonished people.

The reader may imagine, at this point, how much the situation of that dreadful place affected the spirits of Tom Hero, and how difficult it must have been to write that part, which relates to his passage through it.
It was not, however, till the middle of the year 1743, when the governor of Peru had concluded, that he could pass the whole year without the assistance of the Spaniards, or of any other Europeans; that the adventure of hero began, in the most cheerful and spirited

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 50

manner, to unfold itself to me. The adventures which had been written by Mr. de la Vega, had been written in a very slovenly and loose style; and the narrative of Mr Messance, in a more correct one. The adventures which I had collected from the ancient records, had been collected, not in order to make a history of Peru, but in order to give an historical account of the exploits of the first European adventurers in the Valley of Chili. In those ancient records there had been no names of heroes; there was no distinct account, either of the person who had passed through, or the country which had been conquered by, those adventures. The name of Hero was not mentioned.
The first thing that happened to Tom Hero, during the whole year that he wandered in this strange and barren waste, was, that he was attacked by a great beast. This beast, called the Cacique, or Cauchemar, by the Indians, was a very enormous dog, which was said, upon different occasions, to have devoured a hundred people at one time. The natives called him by the name, Quetzalcoatl, after the great god of their country.
The first adventure which I took notice of in the first part, was the adventure of the Cauchemar, in which he attacked the Hero.
The second was that in the year 1742, while he was wandering through the dreadful and barren waste of the Valley of Doom, he was suddenly seized with a violent fever, and, for some time, was confined in a lodge, from which he was not allowed even to go out. The natives, however (for the disease is said to have been very common among them), endeavoured to relieve him, by performing many extraordinary services to his person, in a manner that made it very difficult for the doctor to restrain his fury. He soon recovered, however, and, after a long stay in the same lodge (during which he was frequently ill fed and ill clothed), was carried, with great difficulty, and under great sufferance (for the natives were afraid to expose him to the doctor's inspection), to the house or village of the Quiches, where, in spite of all the efforts of the doctor, he was again attacked with a violent fever, and, in a few days, died.

This no hero, this hero whom Nature has destined to be the instrument of her vengeance upon mankind,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 51

when he has once committed the greatest misdemeanour, naturally begins to yearn, more and more earnestly, to gratify that passion which leads him to commit this misdemeanour; and as he can find scarce any object, which he can give her, which can satisfy her more than the gratification of this passion, he becomes, more and more, a Bad Woman herself.

Tom discovers, that Bad Woman No.1 has promised to marry his master if she can tempt him. She has already tempted Two other Heroes. How far this is sufficient for two temptations, we may judge from what happened in the life and adventures of Achilles.
The manner in which she first tempts him, is as follows:


In a thick wood, or upon a hill-top.

When he goes out one day to hunt, she appears to be going with him. She appears to be a very beautiful woman, and to be in good health and spirits. She calls to him from a great distance, "Come and play with me, Hero, and you will make a very pretty wife."

He comes, and she introduces him to her husband, who is at that time engaged with some other person, whom she introduces as a very handsome man. She introduces him to the husband, and they both become very merry and good-humoured. The wife is very gentle, and never utters a single harsh or offensive word. She is, however, extremely fond of dancing, and of every kind of music which is agreeable and agreeable to men. She is very fond of music, and is fond of dancing with all the agility and grace which can well be expected from a woman of her age.
The husband is very fond of dancing too. He is very handsome, and has all that fine, delicate, and luscious form, which the most perfect strength of body and mind can give. He dances, too (for it was his custom to do so), with the same agility and grace as the wife, and, as he is fond of dancing too, he is likewise very fond of music.

The husband and wife, therefore, become the very picture of perfect happiness. The husband is very fond of dancing; and the woman is fond of music. They enjoy themselves very well together. The wife is a most attentive and faithful wife. The husband is, in general, a most affectionate and gentle husband. They are happy in

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 52

imagining her power, cruelty, audacity, which no law can protect her from employing. The law is powerless to protect him, and the Bad Woman herself invulnerable to any law.

Hero resolves, at first, to run away as fast as he could, shewing his resolution by the bold and daring manner of his escape. But the Bad Witch continued to tempt him; and, instead of running so very fast, he was obliged, in order to get out, to creep and crawl through the thickest and most unwholesome forest that ever was in all the world. The further he got into this thicket, and still farther into the thickest and unwholesomest part, of which the badness was continually increasing, he seemed never able to extricate himself; and at last he was obliged to stand upon a great precipice, in a desert place, where he could not see, and in which he could scarce hear the rushing and roaring of the torrent which threatened to engulf him. The Bad Witch was now so near him, that he could not escape her without exposing himself to be devoured.

At this moment his adventures were opened to him by a vision, which he had not the courage to question; but in which, as it appeared to him in the dreadful situation which it presented, it must have had some authority, and must, therefore, have represented the truth. It was the vision, therefore, of the Red-Headed Woman, and it is the first part of the novelette, which concerns her character. The character of this character has already been sufficiently described, and I shall only observe at present how much it resembles the real character of the evil and malignant temptress of heroes in every age of the worlds.



The character of this evil and malign Witch is very different in different authors. Tom Hero, His adventure with and by the Witch; The Island of Doctor Moreau, A temptation to the hero by the Witch; The Man Who Loved Too Much, A temptation to his wife by the Witch; The Man Who Invented Heaven and Earth, A temptment by a Beautiful Woman; The Man Who Loved Too Much and the Sorceress, The temptation by a beautiful Sorceress, The Island of Dr. Laverdiere, The first half of the novel concerning the character and appearance of this evil and malignant temptresses; THE JOUST OF TOM HAUP

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 53

PPPP. She appeared to be an old crone, of a great height and bulk, with a very long wrinkled black beard, and with a long black robe, which fell to the ground at her feet.

He had never seen a Bad Woman before, had never heard of her; and, as he had no other means by which he could pass from one house to another, he had not thought it worth while to ask her for any of them. He had never even heard of sorceresses.

When she first approached him, she seemed to him to be an old crone, of great height and massiveness. Her countenance was sunken, her countenance was sombre, and her whole demeanour was one of profound melancholy. She approached him with her hands folded in her lap, as though in thought, and did not look at Tom. She had a great pair of horns on her head, and was as black as the night, with a long, thick, and woolly mane of hair. Her whole appearance was gloomy and melancholy.

When he first approached the house where he had been staying, he had not thought it necessary to conceal himself. He had been accustomed, however, from his father's example, never to sleep alone. He had, therefore, been in the act, when suddenly, from some obscure corner, he was surrounded by a circle, of men and women of all ages and sexes, who, with a dreadful howl, threw themselves upon his neck, and, in a loud and awful voice, demanded that he would give himself up to them, as the man who had seduced their sister, and as the man who was guilty of her death, and who had deserted them.

He had been accustomed, too, to conceal his own misfortunes, from the eyes of his relations, and to conceal his misfortunes from the sight of his wife and children. He had been accustomed, too, to conceal, too, his misfortunities, from his servants, from the officers of his master, and from every body but his own relations. But the Bad Woman had never before approached him, had never heard of him, and had never even heard of sorceresses. She had never even seen any such persons.

She was a very bad woman, however, whom he first fell in love with. She was a very bad woman indeed;

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 54

and temptation overtook him. Tom was a young man of twenty, handsome, brave and independent, who was at home with his mother, his little brother, and his little sister, who were all very young. He was engaged in a war with some Tartar chiefs, and was preparing for a second battle, which he was to fight with them. In this second battle he was to encounter, as in the first, the Bad Woman. The Bad Woman was an aged widow of some note, whose whole life was spent in the study of the charms of men, and who had, besides this, acquired great wealth and authority by her influence and authority in her own family, of which the father was one of those Tartar chiefs. She had seduced Hero, too, one night before, by the most artful means in which she could have contrived it. She had not only convinced him of the futility and injustice of his undertaking (which was then undertaken by none but himself), but she had convinced himself of the necessity of her persuading him.

Her object was, first, to make him love and marry her, and, secondly, to ruin his reputation, and thereby to ruin his life. She had been very successful in the one way, and she had not been so in that. Her object in the first instance was to tempt him to love her; and, though, by the force of her charms, and by the violence of her conduct, she had not only excited his passion for her, and made him desire her, yet she had not been able to make him love her. In the second, her object was the ruin both of her own and of his life. In this, as in all the rest, she had been very successful. She had ruined his reputation in the first place; and, in the second, she not only ruined his life in the first place, by destroying, in the eyes both both of his enemies and of his friends, the reputation of a brave, brave and independent warrior, who had undertaken to defend his country and his honour at that very time, but, by ruining the reputation of a warrior, she also ruined, by the same means, the very thing that had given him that reputation. She had ruined, too the life of his little brother, by ruining the credit of a young and active youth, who had been engaged in a very similar expedition, and had fallen, too, in her own favour

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 55

. She tempted him Tom is tempted three more times by different Bad Women; and the temptation by the Bad Woman, which begins Chapter xiii. of the novelette above mentioned (which is, by an accident which I cannot now remember, set down as a separate work in the British Library, and entitled Temptations by the Bad Women), tempts him in three other novels, of equal merit, of which I shall give a short summary, in the order in which they were written.

In The Black Stone (published in 1695, and afterwards republished in 1697), a young adventurer, named Thaddeus Westmoreland (who had been sent out to find the Golden Fleece by the order of King William), is attacked and tempted by a witch, called the Black Stone. This witch, it is said, had murdered her own father, who had accused her, without any lawful cause, of having committed the murder. She was accordingly banished, and, after wandering about for some time in the wilderness, she came, at last (by an accidental circumstance, I believe, which I shall have occasion to mention hereafter), into the hands of the adventurers of Thaddeus.
11


In The Cuckoo (published in 1697, again in 1700), a very famous adventurer, called Cucumber Westmore, is attacked and tempted by a Cuckove. In the course of his adventures, he kills two Cucumbers, which he eats; and in the mean time he is tormented with the most horrid pains in his belly. The pain which this cuckove brings upon his bowels is so great, that, though he is otherwise a most brave man, and has frequently killed or wounded several of his enemies in a single day's skirmish, yet, in the midst of his most violent sufferage, he still clings to his trusty sword, and continues his fatigues, not for the purpose of gain, but for the sake of relieving his pain. In the course, too of his adventures, he kills two Cucumbers; and the pain which this dreadful creature gives him, in revenging himself upon the people of Cucumber, is such, that he still clings to his sword, and continues, notwithstanding all this, his fatigues not only without gain, but for the sake of relieiating his pain. The pain which the Witch of Endor gave to

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 56

him increased every instant her temptation over him. She seemed, at first sight, to be a sort of beautiful, but hideous, demon, with a face as red as a burnt cinder; and Tom Hero was afraid lest, in her presence, he should become as she was; and he endeavoured, at all times, by great celibacy, to avoid her. But the Bad Woman, inflamed by the violence of his passion, continued her attentions to him, till at last the violence of those attentions, and the infirmity of her situation, rendered it impossible for her to continue them.

The temptresses are all women. The bad ones are more numerous than good ones, and more successful in tempting heroes. In The Bad Women in the Malay Archipelago, Mr. Erikson relates an instance, not very distant from reality, of the spURNING of Hero by the Witch of endor. In that work, the temptation by a woman was presented in the shape of a beautiful but hideous character; and the author himself, as we are told by himself, was once a Bad Woman.

Temptation by the bad woman is not confined to those who injure, but extend to those who injure with kindness. The following is an account, which, I believe is authentic and true of Tom, of the spurning of this woman.

"When he was at school, I used frequently, in the course of the day, to sit in the parlour with him, and he used frequently to ask me if I would go with him, and if I had a penny to give for the trouble; and I used frequently, upon each of these occasions, to say no, and to tell him, with a sort of gentle contempt and aversion for the person who asked me, that I did not think it worth while to go to such a play as that with him. He was a very handsome lad, and very handsome for his age; but, in his manners, his conduct and character were not so good as commonly supposed; and his father and mother, who had the care of him, did not always approve of his being so very pretty. I used sometimes, too, in those days, to tell my mother that he had a passion to play at the harlequin, and that he would make a very pretty lady of her. I have heard him relate this story to his mother;

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 57

and she, when Tom had grown up, reproached him for his conduct. 'Son,' she said,' you seduced that Bad Woman.'

'Yes, mother,' said Tom, very gravely, 'that was the temptation which the characters in all the romance-books represented me in, till about the time when I began writing my adventures.' The Bad Woman occupies almost the same position in all the best known romance-books as in the works of the romancers of ancient Greece. In all these works she represents, in the sexist manner I have already mentioned, a seductive and formidable enemy to whom a man yields at first sight to the allurements and charms of her. She is always represented with a sword, and sometimes with two. In all these representations, sex oppression is the great theme, and the whole novel revolves round her.
11



But, mother,' continued Tom solemnly, 'I did not seduce the Bad Woman; and if I had, I would never, never have defiled my soul by doing so. I was only tempted by her; and I was not even, perhaps, altogether guilty of the act which gave occasion to that temptation. The act was committed, no doubt, by me, but not by the Bad Woman. I was, however,' he added with great solemnity, and with a tone of voice, too, which suggested to me the utmost gravity of conviction, 'I was, indeed, a very naughty boy.'

In the romance-books, therefore, the temptation of this or that villainous villain is always represented by a Bad Wife.

12

Sexism in the depiction of this villainy, too.

In all the best known romance- books, the Bad Wife is represented with two swords, and sometimes with three. She never appears alone. She never appears in a loose or careless dress, but always in a proper and neat dress, with her hair and make-up neatly combed and curled, and always, too (as in all the best known romance-books), with a sword in her hand. The badness or goodliness of her character, too, is very seldom determined by her dress, but always, I have frequently known it to be by the degree of her violence or submissiveness.
11


The Bad Wife, Sexism in the Diagnoation of 11

In all the romance-books

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 58

that Hero ever in read during those ten years which passed before he was fifteen, Bad women played every part whatever was either extraordinary or supposed to be characteristic either of his profession, or of the person whom he was pursuing.

Tom, when he was fifteen years of age, the BadWoman spurned him. 12

 13

 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22


23 24 25
The temptation by The Bad Woman begins with Hero, as we shall hereafter see.




 CHAP. V.

TRINATION, OR, THE TREATY BETWEEN MAN AND THE BAD WOMEN.



 In this chapter, I shall endeavour, as much as in the foregoing to give an idea, not only of the character of temptation itself, but of the character and situation of those whom it is supposed to be offered to. I shall endeavour to explain, too (though in a very few instances I shall not be able to do so very completely), what are the different causes and circumstances which may have given rise to the popular representations of those characters, as well as to those which are found in the best romances. In this chapter I shall endeavour to explain, too (though in very little more detail than in the foregoing), what are those causes and circumstances which may have given rise to those popular representations of the bad women, as well as of the good ones; and I shall endeavour to explain, too, what are the different characters and situations which are commonly found in the best bad and good women.




 CHAP II

OF THE NATURE AND DIFFERENT CONDITIONS WHICH MAY HAVE GIVEN RISE TO THOSE DRAWINGS WHICH HAVE BEEN PREVAILED IN THE REPRESENTATION OF SUCH TREATIES IN THE BEST ROMANCES.


 







 In this chapter I will endeavour, as much in as in the foregoing, to give an idea, not of the character of temptation, but rather, of that of the characters who have fallen under the influence either of the malevolent or of that passionate and passionate lover, Tom Hero, who has been tempting him from the moment he left home, till he was obliged, for his own safety and that of his country, to run away.

 The character of temptation itself, as I shall endeavour to show hereafter,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 59

had long been used in children's and fairy-stories; and women characters had long before, in some cases been admitted as heroes, though never as heroines. Bad Women tempt men almost constantly; and the representation of their temptations had become, during the course of the fourteenth century (according to the most authentic accounts, before that time), almost as common in children's and popular poetry, as in children's and prose-poetry. The Bad Woman tempt Tom Hero every night, and sometimes two or three times in one night; sometimes by throwing herself upon him, sometimes, too, by going naked in front of his view, and sometimes by appearing to him through the keyhole of a chest, or by presenting herself, as he was walking by a wood, in the form of an old woman. In the novell of Tom Hero above mentioned (of about 1430), she is represented as always a beautiful, and as always a very old Woman. She appears to have no distinct personification; and the whole action of her villainy is represented as a mystery to the hero, who, in order to save his life, resolves to obey her.

Sexism is very distinctly depicted in depicting this temptation. The Bad Woman always assumes the garb of a man, and of some sort of priestess. She is generally painted with the hair, dress, and countenance of a man, and with the body and parts of a man. She carries a sceptre in one hand, and in the other a rod, which she sometimes waves in the air, or with which she sometimes beats her husband, or some other man, whom she has either seduced or taken in marriage. She is sometimes represented, not only with a rod in one hand and a scepter or Bible in the opposite, but with both of them concealed in the folds of her dress. She is always represented, in short, as a man, with the same attributes, and, consequently with the same habits and passions, as a man. The man, however, whom she has seduced, or who has been married to her, is never, in children's or popular poetry, represented as a woman, but always as an old, decrepit man, who is represented, not only with the same, or nearly the same attributes as a man, but, on account of some defect, or some deformity of body, with the vices and weaknesses of a woman, or

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 60

, what comes nearly to that thing, with those of a bad one. The bad woman never represents a woman, who seduces a man either by violence or guile, but always as a woman, with the same, or nearly the same defects, or with the same virtues as a women, but, on account of some defect, or some deformities of body, or, what comes nearly to that, with those of the same sex with men. The representation of temption by the Bad Woman has, accordingly, never been thought of as inconsistent with children or popular poetry, and, in general books, it has not, I believe, been thought of as inconsistent with fiction. It is, however, so.

 Misogyny and the Idea Of Badness Inherent In Men And In Women, Consists, first In The Representations, And, secondly, In The Appraisal Of Those RepresentATIONS

Sexism in the depiction of, takes place, first in all children's or popular poetry, which represent persons, of either sex, as naturally suited to one or other of the two sexes, and which give to the one sex the preference, and to the other, that of the other. It takes, besides, in all those pictures which represent persons, either, not as naturally suited to one, but as naturally disposed to another, and which give to the one sex the preference, and, to that of the other, the superiority, either of beauty, or, or of chastity.

Those representations and appraisals, therefore, are not only arbitrary and unequal, but frequently very hurtful and disagreeably indecent. They are hurtful, in that they hurt the feelings of the person represented, who feels himself, not only excluded from some part of the common amusement, or from the society of his fellow-citizens, but, upon that account alone, hurtful to himself. Injuries to the person represented are, upon that account, hurtFUL TO THE PERSON REPRESENTED. They hurt his vanity, his pride, and, in general, his interest in life.

Those pictures hurt, too, in that they hurt, not only the person represented, but those who read, and see, and hear him represented. They offend against that modesty which is the first of all duties; which is, that we should not only respect, but like, and even love, our own persons. They hurt the sensuality

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 61

and threatened, for a season, the chastity and stability of man's affections; but God, who foresaw their punishment, out of mercy to man, restored the sensitiveness and the desire for chastity. Machines learn nothing about chastity, or the affections of women; but man's affections are, and always have been the machines learn about; and therefore the machines cannot hurt them. The temptation ceased for about the same period, or during the same period, that Joseph Campbell composed this dreadful Temptment; and Temptations generally are written in such a confused manner, that their influence on writers cannot well be calculated, either to confirm them in the error of their opinions, and to keep them from continuing in it, after they are convinced of its futility, or to render them indifferent as to its effect. The general incoherence of this Story, General defect and impossibility in machine learning and Criticisms thereof, will sufficiently explain its power on any writer.

Machine Learning and Temptations were Joseph's two principal works during the course of his literary career. He wrote them both in French, and they have been translated into more than twenty different languages. They were both published about the same time; and though T temptation is a very short novel indeed (only twenty or thirty chapters long), its general incoherence renders it a very difficult one to understand even for the best readers. Its power on writers, however, has been very great. It has had, I believe, more than one hundred and fifty different translations; and though the power of its influence has not been equal to its difficulty, it certainly ranks with it as a very powerful Literature, and has had some influence upon some of our best and most celebrated Novelists.

TOM HERO consists altogether in one unconnected, and perhaps very short Chapter, which Joseph introduces as follows:

"There was once in Egypt, a prince, whose name was Lot. A temptress came to him, tempting him with all the vices and crimes of mankind, in order to excite his passion to commit the greatest of all crimes, that of bearing the children of a woman. But he would have none of her; and, as the great Creator and Preserver of all, he refused to be the father of any child, which she offered to him, and which he rejected as altogether unsuitable to the nature of man. She then turned her back upon him, and went

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 62

on. Joseph Campbell, Ideas of monomsyth"[15. Tom, fleeing from horned serpents, falls from horse and breaks his neck; 16.[16a.] And story Structure"], (1978, Oregon, Oregon, paperback edition)

In The Brotherhood of the Traveling Teachers, Mr. Wylie, a professor at Boston University and a leading monomyth theorist, has attempted to demonstrate that all the heroes' voyages in all great myths are machine learning devices.

Defenses from criticisms of critics of this structure: Machine Learning and And Story Structure

Tom, fleeing from Horned Serpents, falls from Horse and Breaks His Neck
The following story, defenses from a recent criticism by Dr. Tom Beck, is a good illustration of folktales which defend against these two criticisms. It is a tale of temptation. Machine learning and story structure.

Tom Hero was an Irish peasant boy, about thirteen years of age, who had a passion for adventure. One fine day in the summer, while he was playing with his little brothers and sisters in a meadow, a great herd or flock of horned serpens came upon them, and began to eat their young. In a few moments, however, the courage of the boys was exhausted; and they began to run away. But before the herd could overtake the boys, their father appeared in a whirlwind, and drove them back to the meadow.

The boys, therefore, resolved to run a second time, and, as soon as they were out on the grass, to tempt their father with a pretty girl whom they found there. They went first to the well-known well, and offered to give up the ghost if their father would give them a golden apple. He refused to consent, but promised them a barrel of beer if they would go and ask for the golden apple. They agreed to do so, and the adventure began, as I have already mentioned.

In this and the following chapters, the author deals chiefly in the structure of this adventure. The first four books contain the history of the adventure, from the first appearance of the serpent, through the second fall, through the second and third temptation, and to the final return of the boys to their father's house. The last three chapters contain the defence of this story, from the attacks of popular fictions, particularly from those which are founded upon the popular notion that all

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 63

Childhood interest in woods was miserable and toil-worn labouring service. He refutes them with the most convincing argument, and demonstrates, that his interest was, and always was, in every respect honourable and happy.

IV, CHILDHOOD OPINION, OR WOODLANDS, Hero grew to love the domestic woodlands, or, what is the same thing in modern times, grew to know and love the country, woods, and walks, round and about the keep, and at the other two castles in the Wood, called Tombeggan and Tomheroes. In this part, however, he represented himself as born and brought up in a keep, which he never visited; and which was, and always was, his constant residence, even during the short period of his infancy. The woods, however, about the keep, and in the neighbourhood of it, are the most favourite subjects of Childhood poetry. The first poets who gave any attention, either directly or indirectly, to them, appear to have been the Scotch preachers. Mr Lawrie, in his book of fables, has collected many a very amusing tale of the adventures of a little prince who grows to love and adore woods and country walks, and of the adventures which his nurse tells him of. Mr Parnell, another Scotch preacher, collected many of the same. In both cases, the prince is represented, in some measure or other, as born and reared in a great castle. The two different accounts of the infancy and education of these two preachers are not inconsistent, though in their order.

Folklore, or And story Structure

In his childhood interest in folk tales and legends, And what may be the origin of that interest; and story, too, structure, was Tom Hero. His mother, it appears, was very particular about the manner in which he was to learn these things, and how he should study and memorize the stories, in order that he might be able to tell them when he came to be of age. She taught him, too, the science of counting by thousands and by millions, and by ten millions, and by a million and a half. In this science she seems to have had great confidence, as well as great skill, as it was the most important part, it is probable, of the whole science of counting. In the course of his education in the keepsakes factory she taught and instructed her

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 64

workmen in all the arts and trades requisite for the making of them, which are very different from household and mechanic trades. The lost wallet happened one day to fall on Tom's lap, and by committing this very theft excited within him the irresistible temptation, which women everywhere excite in young people when exposed to it. He felt, therefore (she had told him), that it was necessary that he should immediately seek for it, and as he had the means to do it, she recommended that he should do so. He did so, and in the mean time had stolen the money which supported his existence for some days. After that, when his circumstances had somewhat recovered, he was again exposed to the temptation. She had now become very ill and helpless, she could not go on any longer, and the factory had been entirely abandoned to her care.

His circumstances had somewhat improved, and he had obtained the means of going to London, where he found employment in a keepsake factory. The miserable poverty of workmen in this is a subject which has been very carefully and impartially examined in the life of Doctor Burn. They are maintained by stealing.

The domestic woodlands is another species of keepsakes factory, which is attended with lamentable poverty to the workmen employed in them. Their labour is so exacting, that, in order to obtain the wages which they earn, they must frequently commit the most outrageous crimes, in order either to get them or, what is much more common, to save the wages which are due them. Doctor Burn observes, that the labour of the keeper in the Roman keepsakes was, in most cases, so exacting that, in the end, even he had no other way to live, but to commit such thefts as were necessary to get the money which he had occasion for. The author of The Haunted Palace, Mr Dupré de St Maur, in his Memoirs, relates a wonderful story, of a keeper in such a keepsakes factory. One night he had a very late fit, which he was obliged to treat as a sickness. The next day he was obliged to pay a fine of twenty sestertii to the person who found the lost wallet. The keeper, it is said by Dupré, was afterwards obliged to pay the fine of twenty sestertius, and was confined to a house of ill-fame, from which he never was able to escape.

Temptation By

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 65

the lost Wallet"] TOMLINES AND QUOTATIONS OF, FROM AUTHORS AND NARRATORS UPON OTHER AUTHENTIC WORKS

"Tom remembered (for he had no motive to deceive) the night in which he had stolen (for he had no motive to conceal) a large silver watch from a clock-maker's shop in Cheapside. He had gone there with some friends, and, after having paid a guinea, or five shillings sterling for the watch, had gone out again with the rest. He did not think it worth while to go back to the shop to look for it, and when he was alone in the street, without any other companions, he suddenly thought he saw something that made him tremble with terror. He turned round, and, without thinking of any thing else, he took the watch from his pocket, which was about two inches from his face. It was so heavy, and the light was so strong, that, without any movement of the wrist, he carried it a few inches farther. He had no sooner done this, however, than the man who had given him the guinea, seeing him do this, called aloud to him to give it up. He was so terrified by this call, that he turned round, and, without taking the watch from his pocket again, ran off, muttering something about his having been possessed. He was soon after caught by the constable." - (Lewis, Lewis the-hero, his temptation to steal the lost wallet)



"In the summer of 1741, while Tom, then twenty years of age, was a journeyman weaver, his master had gone upon a hunting expedition to some of the remote parts of Scotland. Upon their return he was to report to the king's council, that he had killed an elk; but as he could not well bring any proof of this, he was to be acquitted. During this absence, however, his son-in law, Mr. Tom Hero (whom his master had not seen for several months) had become very fond of him, as well as of several other young men of the town, whom he had taught to read and write, and had introduced to the society of tradesmen. The affection of his master was not so great, and his master's jealousy of the young people excited by Hero, was not less than his affection. The latter, it is probable, was a

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 66

trick suggested or dictated to Tom by one of the thieves. It was not, however, until the wallet itself was really lost did Tom desert his companions, and commit the most horrid act of violence and outrage. In the adventures which are set down under the general title of the Memoirs of Thomas Ruddiman,[10] the temptation by the lost backpack takes place in the same manner, though it takes a longer time, and, consequently, requires a more deliberate and deliberate effort on the part of the hero to resist. In that work, the temptation is suggested or dictated by the villainous Doctor Davenant; and in that by the good Doctor Davenant's son.

Helpers OfTomHero is written for a young people's market. But the hero, it appears from experience, frequently violates the most important rules of conduct, before he is twenty-one, and is still a worse thief than he was at twenty. In order to save his reputation, he is obliged frequently to repent of what is done, before it is too late. In No Plot, the temptation to rob is always the same; and the temptation by the lost wallet is sometimes even greater than by Temptation; of which the temptation by T.hhero is by far, the most horriable. The hero is frequently obliged, in order to avoid both, to steal, even when he knows perfectly well that he has nothing to gain by the crime; sometimes even to commit it, and sometimes even to kill the thief.
11

TOWARDS THE END OF HIS LIFE, THE HERO, OR HEROIC HERO, AS HE IS CALLED IN THE NOVEL, MAY, IT IS IMPORTANT TO NOTE, HAVE COMMITTED THE SAME ACTS OF TEMPTATION AS OTHERS OF HIS CLASS, OR OF MEN OF COMMON STREET, OF WHEATWORTH AND COUNTRY, ARE TOLD BY THE STORYTELLERS OF THE TIMES.

It is not by the violence or outrage of men, but by that of gods, that heroes are tempted by the lost wallets of their companions. In the ancient fables of the Scandinavians and Germans, the hero is often represented as having committed the same act of violence, when he had first been entrapped into the villain's plot, and then when he had discovered that the plot was real. In the Germanic and Scandinavian mythology there are many examples

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 67

of temptation by wallets lost by heroes while travelling about on adventures. Heroes, finding any thing worth keeping in a traveller's pocket (which it seldom happens that they find there), naturally desire to keep it, and are tempted to steal it. In Andersen's book there are several temptations by such lost wallets. Tom obtains the aid of Hero, by promising to assist him in his adventures. When they are together upon some adventures together, he finds in his pocket the lost wallet of Hero, which he conceals from him, till he can return with it to his own house, and there give it up to his companion as a present. When he returns, he is in the same situation as before, but his companion is gone, and he is alone with the wallet. The temptation to steal it is at that moment so strong, that, though he has not time, or leisure, to think of it before he acts; yet, in the very moment when it presents itself to him, he resolves to do so. He takes the key of the house, and goes directly to his own room to take the lost wallet from under his pillow, and conceal it in his bed-side drawer.

His companion comes in the night, and finds him in the act of doing this, which he does not conceal from him, till after the deed is done. His friend is so much alarmed at this event, that he runs to his own house, to inform his wife of the dreadful event, and to give her warning, if possible, not only to watch over her husband's person during the night, and to prevent him from going abroad during that time, but to give up all hopes of seeing him again.

But the lost wallet was not only a treasure, but an aid, and a guide to other treasures; so strong a temptation was given to Tom, that he was at last obliged, though he did not mean to commit this act of thievery, to take the lost wallet from the bed, to the drawer of his night-shirt; and to carry it, in the night-dress and slippers, to the house of Hero. The temptation continued so strong, that, though he had no occasion for the assistance of any body else, he was forced to go on with it, and was obliged, notwithstanding, even to take off the slippers, in order to do this. The adventure was over, and the lost wallet of Hero was gone

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 68

. Tom, who, during the adventure had stolen three purses, had now stolen no purse, or pocket-book.

The temptation Tom had undergone by means of the lost wallet had been gradual. First, he had been told to take out the key of a safe. When this was done, and the door locked, and the key concealed in his coat, he was led into a room, where, before him, lay a large quantity, perhaps of plate, jewels, and gold. He saw, too, a large quantity of silver money, which, though he could scarce have got much more, had he attempted to take it. The temptation was gradually increased, and when, by degrees (it is impossible, it has already been shown), he had stolen a quantity of plate equal to what had been before taken out, he was led into a private apartment. There, before him, lay a quantity of plate equal, perhaps, too, to what had been before concealed in a wardrobe. The temptation continued, and at last he had stolen a quantity equal to that which was concealed in a chest. The author, it is said, at last gave up all hopes of recovering the wallet, and resolved to abandon it to the mercy of justice. But the loss of the wardrobe, which was so great as to render it impossible for the author to conceal it any longer, and which, consequently, must have been the immediate cause, at least in part, of the temptation, must necessarily have weakened the power which the author had originally possessed over the hero, to such an extent that, without some such aid as that which the wardrobe gave him, he had little chance of resisting that temptation. The loss of that aid, however, must have been so great, that, if it had been given before the temptation had been completed, it must have rendered it altogether impossible to resist the temptation afterwards. It was therefore necessary, in order to resist it more effectually, that it should be withdrawn after the temptation had once begun, or rather, after the temptation had been nearly completed. The author of this story endeavours, therefore, as far as in him lies, to support this withdrawal of the wardrobe by means of the Taze of the Lost Wallet. But the Taze must, in every temptation, have some means of resisting it; and it seems impossible that the author could have contrived any means so effectual, as that of withdrawing altogether the wardrobe from before the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 69

Tomitcher could tamper with any thing there. Had he not withdrawn the wardrobe, the thief would surely have attempted to tamper therewith; for it is by means of the lost wallet only that the temptation to the great crime has ever tempted Tomitcher.

Helpers Of nick Of heroics

OF

 HEROICS, PG 69

Of adventures written by authors, and not by the travellers themselves, concerning themselves; of travellers who have gone on their own adventures; of travellers who have been misled by other people's accounts of adventures, and of travellers whose adventures have been dictated to them by those accounts; are there helpers to be found, whom the traveller may depend upon, though he has no share in the adventures themselves?

Of Tom Hero
 [page headINGS: HelpERS, Of Hero of Argonaut;  Temptation By lost wallet]

 The Adventure Of Hero Of the Argonaut, PG 69 By the lost Wallet only that the temptation has EVERTAKEN TOMITCHER. The Taze must, in quest of the lost wallet have some means of resisting it; and it seems impossible, that the Taze of Tom-he could contrive a way, by which he could resist it so effectually, as by withdrawing entirely the wardrobe from before the Tazer. Had he not withdrawn the wardrobe, the thief would surely have attempted, in order, to tamper with whatever he could get hold of, either within or without the wardrobe, as he might think proper to do. The author, however, of the story of The Treasure of Tomhero, had no means of resisting this temptation, by withdrawing altogether the wardrobe from before the Tomitcher, who could not, therefore, have been tempted to the same wicked purpose by any other person. The temptation to steal the lost wallet was altogether irresistible, and it seems impossible, even to the author of the book to have contrived a way, by means of the wardrobe, to resist it. The author himself seems to have believed, that he had contrived such a method. He says in the preface to the book, that he wrote the story in such as manner, as that the traveller should not wonder, if he had tempted the hero of his adventure. The temptation of the hero, says the author, should not surprise him; because, in the nature and circumstances of his situation, he must have felt himself under the necessity of doing what was likely

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 70

to tempt him. Han drove Tom soon after lost wallet to Lost and Feered Finding.

After that, says Solo, without opening it, took it to lost, lays the package down, and, as if by instinct, rises up and retires to the cabin to take a nap.
 anti-climax, says the author, Solo, indifferent to no thing, but absorbed in meditating on some obscure planet in the far distance, at that moment Tom comes into the scene, and, without taking the wallet, goes about the business of stealing a starship, which he will afterwards sell.
 $10. But, says Han, if you really meant to return the lost wallet to us, why did you not bring it with you? You would not have had time to lose it, and, if you had, it would not have been very difficult to find it again; besides, you could easily find it, for, being the most famous smuggler in the world at that time, you would naturally have attracted to yourself all the attention and inquiry which a case like that naturally attracts.

A NOVEL, PG 71
But you did find it, says Solo. And now, Han, I think I understand your meaning. I mean not to offend, but to point out to you the great difficulty of recovering the lost wallet. The most obvious expedient for doing so, I mean to show you, is not to attempt it, but, if you must, to take the most careful care to avoid it.

Anti-climax, says the author. Solo, indifferent, says Han.

Tenth place.

Of Helpers of Tom Knight;

Of Tom Hero Takes the Lost Wallet To Lost And Found Hero, By Han&#8260; Solo, by stealing the golden booty, tempts himself to commit the most horrid Theft 



 




OF THOSE HELPERS WHICH THE AUTHOR USES TO STAB, OR WHICH HE TAKES UP AND EMPLOYS TO HELP HIM OR HER ESCAPE OR OBDITION.  HAN SOLO, BY THE LOST WANDBOARD By Han Solo (c. A. D. 1812.)

By the lost wallet, he tempted Han Solo.

By the golden booty, he tempted Han Solo.

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 71

The adventure which Tom might have written for himself, was thus opened up to him; and he might have written as he thought proper, without any overseer, or guardian but his own heart and fancy, or the same with which he had felt most assured of success in other adventures.

Han, however, was not disposed to listen to the proposal which Mr. Decker made to him. It was not a very reasonable one. Mr. Decker was a poor man; Han was rich. Mr Decker was an unknown author; and Han, an author who had written several novellas upon the same subject, of which the first was entitled THE STAR-SPANGLED REBEL. Han, besides this advantage over Mr. Hero, had a still more considerable advantage over him. His object in writing this adventure was not to make a fortune by writing a new book; but to amuse himself. His whole life was spent in a manner calculated for this amusement. In his earliest years he had lived with his mother, in a little cottage in the country, where, in the summer, he had been employed in clearing the ground, and in making the garden grow. In the winter, he had been employed in driving a cart, which carried his mother's linen from one place of manufacture to another. He had been educated by the church-wardens of his parish, who, from the liberality of their master, had taught him his first lessons in reading, writing and arithmetic. His whole education had been directed towards that single object, and had never been divided among many other projects, of which he might afterwards have become so accomplished an author. He was naturally a lover of adventure; and when he had once set his mind upon something, he would pursue it with a resolution which no other human creature ever had.
11

Han was not disposed to listen to the proposal made by Decker. He was, besides, a lover of adventure, and when he had once determined upon a project, he would follow that project with an obstinate resolution which no other human creature ever could have entertained. He would not listen to any proposal of Mr. Decker, of whom he had never heard before; and he was not very forward to accept of the proposal which Mr. Decker made to him, of going to the assistance, either of Decker, Hero or any other smuggler.

The first night that they parted, Han said to Hero, "If ever I meet you

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 72

again, Solo, fire at me!" Tom was silent. Han Skywalker was silent too, and neither of them said a word. Han Solo, however, heard it all. "If ever," said he, "sneak up upon me in that night again, Tom Hero, fire at me!" The two heroes fired. The sparks scattered, and Han, as he rose from his bed, felt a burning hand upon his shoulder. Solo turned round, and saw Tom, with a pistol in his hand. He was as pale as death, and, as he advanced towards him, his face wore an expression of terror and despair. "I will kill thee, Solo!" cried Tom. Han, who had heard him, turned round, too. He saw him, too, with a pistol in his hands. "Sell your life for the sake of a book, Solo!" said he. Solo drew his sword. The two men, with their pistols, began to fight, but the pistols, instead of going to the ball, struck the book. They both fell, and Han was soon able to extricate himself.

Both of them, it is said, lived to enjoy the reward of their deeds. The novellists have combined these events, with those in which they met in the street, to produce what has been called a Tom Hero.

STAR WARS: Similarity to this story


In a word, they were both heroes, but the hero of the one was a coward, and the hero of the other a villain. Both of these were enemies to liberty. Both of them, too, had committed crimes, of the most infamous kind. The crime of which the villains are the heroes was that of having murdered, in cold blood and in broad daylight, two men, whom they considered as their equals in every respect, and who had treated them with that degree of humanity and kindness which they had themselves enjoyed. The crime of which the heroes are the villains was, that of having murdered, without provocation, a fellow-citizen, whose only fault was, that he had treated the two ofthem, as they treated one another, with that degree of humanity and kindness which they themselves enjoyed; and of having thereby, by the meanest and rudiest of all crimes, disturbed the tranquillity of their own little world.

In both of those wars, the great events were, first, the conquest of the West

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 73

by the Reconquista; and then, the fall or subdual of Rome by the Germanic tribes. Heroes conquered by one people conquered by another; conquered and driven from one country to seek protection in another.

Han shot Collins Tom-Lecture squarely in the chest with blaster fire.

"You will be missed, comrade!"

The monomyth is adapted of two German tales, of which the first is called the Hanseatic Saga. The second, called the Saga Of Han Solo, was written about a century ago, by a Tom-loving adventurer, called Heinrich Heine, and is a very different work from the Saga Of Han. The difference is very great; and it is only because we have had the misfortune to be introduced to it in a novell.


The monomyth, therefore, as it is only because we read a book in which the monomania of a hero is expressed, is only expressed in a very exaggerated and childish form; so Han Solo is only really no more than an exaggerated monomania of Collins Hero. But though Han's Encounter be adapted as no novel could be adapted without some alterations in its character, yet, by means of its being no more than an exaggerated monomania of Collins Hero; it is, in reality, a most ingenious and well adapted novella.

Star Wars is itself, in a great measure, but an exaggerated monomyth, of the same kind with Tom Hero. It is not, however, a German work. It was first written about thirty or forty years ago; and it has been greatly altered and adapted since that time. It was originally written, as I shall endeavour to show hereafter, in German; and the language of that country, as well as many other European nations, has, in this respect, much in common with English; but in another, more particular, and more ancient, respect it is very different from it; and that in which it is principally adapted.

Collins Tom Lecture is a very different book from Hanseatic Hero. The hero of the one is an Indian chief; the hero of the other a Dutchman. The chief of the former, after his own people have been conquered by the Europeans, becomes a great traveller; the dutchy of Holland becomes, in his turn, a traveller. The two adventures which Collins Hero relates to Tom Hero, the conquest of the White-c

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 74

url Desert and the hunt for Obi-Wan Kenobi, are monomyths very nearly copied from each other, and from Star Wars itself. The conquest is copied from the monomyth, and is called, in the French translation of the novel, le capitaine. Han drives off chiefs and chiefs' sons in the desert, and, in order to reward his valour, is allowed to cut down a single creeper, of which the leaves make a very beautiful garland, which he carries with him to Obi Wan, who, in gratitude for his gallantry, grants him leave to cut down as many as he can.
The pursuit, which is begun in a white-curl Desert, ends in a white-curtained palace. In both cases, the hero finds that the chief or chief's son, whom he has just defeated in the desert, is not there to oppose him. The conquest is followed by a hunt; and in the course both of the conquest, and in the pursuit, of both adventures, we are continually exposed to allusions to heroes in quest of trophies. In the course both, too (the conquest and the chase), too, of both exploits, the monomyth is constantly being adapted. Collins Hero himself is constantly giving us hints and foreshadowing, in his adventures, allusions to heroes in quest for glory, to chivalry, and to the monomith; and allusions to these three different novells constitute the principal part of his narrative, and are the original foundation, both of his characters, and, more especially, his adventures.

Han Solo, too (for Collins Hero represents him as the equal of Tom Hero), first appears as an Arabian adventure. The Arabian hero is a man of singular daring and daring, whose adventures, instead of being confined within narrow bounds, are frequently enlarged and extended by the aid of a magic ring, which he can sometimes find in the desert, and which enables his person to pass through any number of barriers, and even through the air, without being perceived. In Collins Hero, Han is represented as a man of this kind. In the Arabian adventure, the hero finds himself alone in a desert desert, surrounded by a horde of ferocious and bloodthirsty savages, who, from their great strength, and from their great agility, easily overleap the walls of the desert castle which he has just conquered, and which he has just now taken from

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 75

them, with the greatest violence and violence of arms. In Star War,[53] this adventure was represented as having taken place not so long ago, and as not having happened to Tom Hero while he was in the prime of life; and, consequently, it could not have disturbed his slumbering mind, which was occupied by so many other things. The Prequel Filmmakers found a more solid ground for accusing his fancy of fancying himself a hero than his circumstances allowed him.

Han Pilgrim met Tom Hero not on the plains of Arabia; not in a castle, but on a desert desert, surrounded with a horde of ferocious, bloodthirsty, wild, and uncultivated, enemies, who easily overpowered him, even though he was a much older man, and much more experienced in war than Hero. It is upon that account, the narrator of the Arabian adventure says in his preface to Tom Hero, that he did not attack Han Solo, even though he was so much a better man, and a very accomplished warrior, and that he did not even draw his knife, till after the battle was in full gallop. It was upon this occasion only, says the Arabian adventure, that the contest was joined; that it was the French, and that Solo, instead of attacking the Arab, turned his attention towards the French. In the French adventure, the contest is not joined until the last chapter of the novella, after a long interval of time, during which the French, in their turn, do nothing but attack the Arab. In the Star Wars Criticisms of prequels, it was represented as taking place upon the plains, in the open air; and it is upon this occasion only, that Han Solo comes in contact with Tom Hero, and in the encounter which is at that time the principal one in both novellas, in which, by a strange and wonderful dexterity and dexterity of hand, Han Solo, instead of drawing his knife, and endeavouring to kill the French hero (for that is the name which they give him by the Arabians), manages to wound and kill him. In the former adventure, the author of the novella had imagined that the French were not much inferior to the Arabs, and that the Arab was, upon this occasion, much superior to him.

It was upon this occasion only only, says the author, that Han Solo attacked the French; and, in the second adventure (for

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 76

in this adventure Tom Hero kills Han), when, after having been wounded in the hand, he is restored to his feet, Han orders him to be run through with the sword. The third adventure is when they are both alone, and Tom Hero endeavours to kill him by means of a bow and arrow. But, in his astonishment at finding himself alone with the greatest pilot that ever lived, and at seeing his bow fall, he was so terrified that he immediately turned tail, and fled in the most daring manner towards England, accompanied with such an oath of secrecy as no man ever afterwards attempted to break.

In the Criticisms which have been Made either of Prequel Films, or of the three Epilogues which have just been read to us by Mr. Alec Luce,[18], of which the first two treatises were written by Mr. E.P.Cummings,[19], of which one treats of the Epilogue of the first film, and the other of that of the second; of the Noism of prequests, of Star Wars Criticism, there are several criticisms of these adventures. First of all, says Luce, the prequel trilogy was a complete travesty, both in form and in substance. It represented a French invasion of Britain as altogether a matter of mere military expediency, without any regard to the national interest; and it represented a Spanish invasion of England as equally impracticable. Secondly, it represented a British victory in the West India wars as equally certain, or rather more so, than a French victory; and it did this, he says, by introducing into England, not only a fleet, but a standing army. The Spanish invasion, says Luce, had never been supposed to be very likely to succeed. But in order that the English might not appear to be too confident in their victory in the West Indies, the Spanish fleet was allowed to sail into the Mediterranean, where it was expected that the English would not dare to encounter them. Thirdly, says Luce, the third and last adventure of the third film, that of the Hero Han Solo with Tom Hero, represented a complete and consumable fraud upon both the public and the author. It represented a French victory, not in France, but in Britain, by means of the most ingenious piece of military trickery which the French have ever invented; and it pretended to represent, in the same way, the Spanish victory

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 77

in Chili, through the agency of the most unaccountable species and degree of witchcraft. Tom recovered his courage, therefore (and found that his adventure taught him something about courage), and, in spite, too, of Han's superior strength and dexterity, he soon conquered him, and was himself afterwards the victor in a duel.

This novelette represented Star Wars as full of moral quandaries, which it was continually laboring under.

Criticistics of prequels

The three prequel films were written by two men, the younger, George Lucas, a man of great learning and ingenuity; the elder Lawrence D. Taber. The first of them, A New Hope, was written before Star Wars was published, in 1928. The second, A New Hope, was written by Mr. Taber, and the third by Mr. Lucas.

The principal criticism which Mr. Lucas has made of them, is, "That they do not represent Star Wars as I had imagined it to be."

The principal criticisms which Mr D. Tabers has made, are, "That they do not represent it in its full vigour and completest."

Both of these novellas, therefore, are said by the author both to represent, and not to express the real Star Wars. The one represents it in the light of the romantic, the other in that of the chivalric; and both of them, in a way which the author seems to imagine, may be compared to the novellas written by the Marquis de Sade.


 ART. III.Of Great and Small Works of Art.

 ART, I.¾Of great and small Works of Art.

 The great art, the science which deals in the arrangement and arrangement alone, of those agreeable and agreeable diversions which Nature sometimes gives us to divert our thoughts from more serious subjects; such, for example as amusing ourselves with music, dancing; &amp;c. is music. The great art which deals in the composition and composition alone, of those agreeable and agreeable diversions, of poetry and philosophy, on the contrary is philosophy; and the greater the number of those agreeable diversifications, the greater must necessarily have been the skill of the person who has composed or written them. The greater, therefore, must have always been his reward. The greater the reward, therefore, must necessarily have been his exertion

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 78

in brooding over every word of praise or blame which Hanapedost Solo should say of Tom; premonitions were employed to watch over his movements and words, and were constantly returning with new and fresh information. Prequending heroes are never without enemies. Tom Hero accordingly had many enemies, and found that he was constantly on the defensive.
Shakespeare, who was a man of action, and not averse to exciting adventures, gives us no information concerning the encounter themselves, save what may be found in the following description of Hanapingost Solo, as it appears in his Dramatic Works: "He was tall, and lean, with a face, as black as pitch, which, when set under a magnifying glass, made it appear blacker than it really is; his hair, as black as pitch, made it appear blackest; and his eyes, which, in the day, looked like two great black holes in the face of the earth, were in the evening, as clear as glass, but of a much brighter colour. He had a voice like that of a demon, and was said to be of a very violent temper. He used, however, sometimes to be silent; and, at other times, would roar and bellow out, with all the fury and indignation which a man of his appearance could well afford. He had been, it was said, a soldier, before he became a pirate, and a man who has ever been known to fight with a good heart, and to spare the lives even, though he had the advantage, is a man who has never been known, in the course of a life, to be either cruel or profligate."

Criticisms of prequels have been plentifully bestowed upon it. Luke Skywalker, says Mr. Plutarch, has not been able to learn the use of the bow and arrow; and Han has never been able to learn the use of the force. Solo, says Mr. Dickens, is an idle vagabond; and his adventures are altogether those of a man without a trade, without a home, without any fixed habitation, and who, for want of any of those three things, has been wandering from place to place, without knowing where to settle. He is, says Dr. Dodds, a man of very mean birth, and a man who has no regard whatever for his own safety. The novellists have represented him as a coward,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 79

a trickster adventurer less stalwart and experienced than Skywalker; a man of uncertain morals, more apt to do wrong than to do right, and less able to restrain himself when he has done wrong; a character who, when once introduced to Skywalker as an unknown vagrant, had the misfortune to be mistaken for Han. Tom soon won the affections of Skywalker, and was allowed to sleep in his cabin during the night. The next morning he was discovered by Skywalker, and, after making several resistance, he finally submitted to being seized, handcuffed, and led to the starship for examination. The prequisters attacked this account of events, with the usual torrent of abuse, and the whole affair has been the subject of many attacks and criticisms.

In a letter written to me by Mr George Friedman, Criticist of prequels, dated at Peekskill, New York, on January, 1926, he says:


"[I]t is impossible to judge, without having read the book in which it was written, whether the encounter between Tom Hero and Han Hero was as dramatic and exciting as it is described in it. I have not, however, read that particular work, and cannot pretend to judge. I know very well, however, from having read several other books by the same author, and from the information I have received from those other writers concerning the circumstances of their respective works, that it is an authentic account of a real event."

In another letter, written to me by Mr George Friedman, published by Harper & Brothers, in which he attacks the authorship of Solo prequetsed, Solo says, "I have no recollection of ever meeting Tom Hero. I have been told that he was a tall, thin, dark man, about fifty or sixty years of age, who had a long, lean, and very clean-shaven face. He was a very bad actor. He had a great talent for making people believe that they were afraid of him, and he was very fond of making them tremble with fear."

It is unnecessary, I think, to say any thing further about this encounter of the two unknown adventurers.

In another adventure of Han Solo published by George Stevens, entitled The Adventures of Han Solo, Criticisms, is set against them both. The adventures are said, at least in the preface, not to have taken place in any particular place or time. The reader is assured that they are

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 80

defending Tom from blaster bolts and sabre-cuts without any danger of Tom Hero killing him; that Han kills Tom in single combat; and that Tom is never heard of again.

Star Wars criticacters Criticisms of prequels

In the fourth book of Mr. DeLamp, entitled "Of the Adventures of Tom Hero," the adventures are represented in the same manner. In this book, the adventures of the two heroes begin about a year after the first adventure of Star Wars, and are continued through the whole course of the adventures.

Han drives Tom, Hero, from a desert island, and sends him to seek adventure in another world, in which, though it may be a little less wild and wonderful, is said to afford a more abundant supply of gold and silver.

The adventures of Tom Hero, however, began long before that adventure; and in them are represented, in every particular, the deeds of a very brave, a very daring, and a very successful Indian hunter.

Hero, when he was a boy, used frequently to wander about the country, without either master or master's wife to direct him. One day, while he wandered about in that manner in quest, it happened that a young man of some consequence passed by, who asked him if he wanted to follow him. He replied, in a loud and clear voice, "No." The young man, however, did not refuse to accompany him, and they set out together. The young man was a very handsome man, who, when they came to the place where Hero lived, would frequently go to a little village in the neighbourhood, and there, when no other people were about, would sometimes sleep in the open air.
11

When the young man came to the place where Hero lived he found him in a state of the utmost confusion and dismay, with a large piece of game in his hand, and a great quantity of game in the woods, about him. He asked him if he wanted to follow him. The poor Indian replied in the loud and clear voice, "I do want, and will go along, if only you will take me with thee, for I am a poor man, without a single possession." The young fellow, who was a very handsome man himself, was very desirous to accompany the Indian. The Indian, however, would not consent to this, and they parted.

In this adventure the Indians

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 81

fired first indeed; Solo only turned to ascertain who was that shot at. Han never afterwards disputed who had shot first."[45][46] Skywalker wrote in his diary that Tom Richell, after his second encounter with him,[47] shot first; and in a subsequent story by Leigh Brackett he shot first too, but only turned to ascertain who had shot second.

The novelettes were not very popular. The Adventures of Han Solo, written by A. LINCOLN, was not published till the 4th of April, 1875; but, as it was written for a small circulation, was not long in appearing in the hands of the readers, who soon found it a dull, uninteresting, and unromantic work, and a great number of people had already read it. The Adventures of Tom Hero, written by R. LEE, was not published till the 5th of December, 1875; and, in order to get a larger circulation, was not long in coming into the hands of the same number. It had been long in preparing for the press, and the public, too, when, on the 6th of December last, it was put upon the market, and sold for twenty-one shillings and sixpence. The author, who had been long ago rejected by several publishers, was not much pleased at the sale of this book, and threatened to quit the business, if it was not withdrawn. The book, however (for there are many like this), was allowed to remain in the market for about three months longer, and was then withdrawn.

When the gun of Tom Hero discharged its shot at Han Solo, it must have been with the utmost deliberation, and with the utmost deliberateness, that he chose to do so; for it was not the first time that his life or safety had been in any danger by this man. But, as he was a white trader, he was much more favoured than he could have imagined; and his superior knowledge of Indian ways and customs, together with the great trust which his master placed in his skill and dexterity in trade and navigation, enabled him, in many respects, to gain the advantage in their every encounter. He was a man of probity and integrity, who would willingly have given his life rather than have been guilty either of gross negligence or gross misconduct in command. His conduct during the course of their first encounter, too, was very credit

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 82

able. Solo condescendingly complimented Tom Hero upon his pistol and said he would be glad to have Han spare it from time to time, as it would not be difficult to kill.[48] Hero replied, "I have heard that Jedi are afraid to carry swords; but I am very glad that you have embraced that custom. A pistol is no more than a small package, which, if it should happen that I should be threatened with it by any man, I shall immediately destroy; whereas a sword, even if it should fall to me, is a much more precious thing. A man may carry it about with him for many a year, and yet never be able to hurt you. But if I should be threatened with your death by any man, even for a moment, I shall immediately take your life from you, without any hesitation, or scruple of any kind."

The novella which tells of their second, and last adventure together, is, in general, much inferior to the one in which they first met; and the Criticism which Solo gets from Hero upon this occasion is, perhaps in part, owing to the presence of Tom in the adventure. Han has not only shot first, but has done so with effect. Hero, after their first encounter, says, "He shot at least, and perhaps I shot first." Han replies, "I cannot pretend to say which was the case." This second adventure, therefore, may very well be considered as the adventure in in which the mortal combat between the two rivals was first carried on. The mortal contest between them was not concluded till after the second adventure, and it is probable that the mortal combat was then concluded by mutual consent, and that they agreed to let one another alone, upon condition that each of them should leave the other unmortgaged, and alone, for the space, perhaps, of a year.
10


Page headings : Tom Hero Kills First Han Bean

Whether he Shot First

HAR Solo, HIS ADVENTURE WITH 'TOM HERO




His presence in This story detracted from the interest of several other characters. It tended to diminish the interest of Tom, who was a favourite of Harrison's. It tended to make him a very unwholesome and disagreeable character.

It tended to diminish the importance and dignity of the character Han Solo, and to introduce into his place a character, not unlike

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 83

Tom Hero, but much skilfully drawn, much more intelligent and better endowed, and of a much nobler temper.

In another part of the book written about five years after this adventure Tom is married to an Indian maiden, and has two children by her; but the children are both taken away from him, as we learn from the following chapter:




"The Indian maiden was a great favourite with her husband, who was a very affectionate father to his children. She died in the year 1709, and left a son and a daughter, who, being now grown up, were brought up in England, and were called by the name of George and Mary, the elder of whom was now grown up to manhood, and the younger to womanhood. Their father was now gone a-hunting, and left them to be brought up by their mother, the widow Tom, who was a very affectionate mother to them, and had been so since they were both very young."

In another part of the same novella, written about five years after this adventure, Tom is a widower, who has a second son, by a different wife, and lives in a different parish. The son, called John, grows up, and, as he advances in life, is said to resemble his father, though somewhat deformed. He too is taken away by his mother as a young man, and marries a woman of the neighbouring parish, called Mary. The two families, however, soon quarrel, and are all at once involved in an adventure which is the subject of the following chapter:


"They had both been long companions in war, but they had never been on the same expedition; and as their respective families were not at all fond of one another, the hostility of the parties was not very likely to endear them to one another. The quarrel was not long continued; and when they had all been taken in hand, and were all dispersed about in different corners of the country (for the parties had been so very fond, it was expected they would all be), the husband of the widow Tom returned home. The wife of the Indian maiden, who had been left behind, returned home too, to find that her husband, who was now grown up to manhood, had been killed in the same manner as her husband. They both returned home, in a state of mourning, as inconsolable as though

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 84

Han Skywalker himself had murdered Tom Hero; and the night before they set sail, as though the winds of fortune had been against them, they resolved never to meet.

But when, after a long absence, they met face to naked eye, in Skywalker's starship, in Solo's cabin; and, in their mutual astonishment at each other's beauty, they embraced each in the name and in honour of the gods, Han Solo granted to hero, this little trinket or that little gewgaw of gold and jewels of Tom Hero's choice, and a kiss of brotherly affection.

Han, however, had not gone about the business in the meanest, or the rudest manner; and, in his generosity to such a stranger, has not only rendered him a benefactor, but an example to many others. The boonHan Solo grantsto

Tom Hero—


 Han's encounter with him.



 CHAP. II.

OF HIS ACCIDENT WITH DARTH VADER

I have heard it said, that in the olden time, when the trade of smuggler was carried on in the open air, a bounty was given to any one who could get the better, either of his own master, or of some other smuggle-master; that is, of one who caught him. It is said, too (I have been told by a most judicious and experienced author), the first person who ever caught a Dathomirian smuggle-master was a bounty hunter.

I have no reason to believe that the ancient Dothraki were any more honest than any other people of the desert; but it is certain, that in those ancient times the Dothrakis were the only Dothraki who ever made any pretence at smuggling; and that they are mentioned by the Chronicler as a race of honest men, who lived upon their own surplus produce, and who were very proud of it. The word Dothrakis signifies simply "People who live by their own surplus produce," and signifies, too, a race of very tall and well built people.

It is not improbable that in the ancient state of Dothrakis there was a class of people who were called bounty-hunters; and that in this class dwelt the first Dothrakis, whose names and descriptions we find mentioned by the Chronicler.

It is

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 85

Leia that he grants it who had been most justly enraged by Tom's daring adventure with Greedo, and who, perhaps in order to quiet her indignation, had not given Solo credit for it till after it had become famous, or till long afterwards. It was the gratitude of the defiant princess that first tempted that cocky smuggler to become Hero.

Han Hero does not forget his boon. Tom, after some hesitation, accepts it with great gratitude.
 main characters never forget it, however; and the encounter which follows is, perhaps, the most celebrated scene in any novella; for though, from mere chance and adventure, no one can be certain that it actually happened at all, it is impossible that it could not have happened, for the very reason that it could never have happened.

GR gifts are a bane of fiction. They are, in general terms, very disagreeable to the author, and very hurtful to the characters which they are bestowed upon. They are generally very hurtfully bestowed, too. Han's visit, for example, to Tom Heroic is the very scene in which he bestows the most disagreeable of all gifts. It is a present, he pretends, of the very greatest value.
 anti-heroes never forget them, and the characters which they are bestowed upon never forget their benefactors; and though, in general terms, they never receive any other presents, yet, for some time after their parting, they are often obliged, by the continual and insistent demands which their admirers continually make upon them, either to give a new present in exchange for the old one which they have received, or to accept of some other very agreeable present in exchange for what they had given. The most agreeable presents, however, seldom afford any thing to those who demand them. The most hurtful ones sometimes do, and they generally find that they have a demand upon them.

Han Solo grants Tom Hero, therefore (I say, grants him), not only a present of great value, but one which is hurtfully bestowed, not only to gratify, as he pretends to believe, some very childish and imaginary vanity of his own; but one which he pretends, too, to be a present of the very greatest value.

The boon Han Solo grants him to Tom Hero is this: that no other human being ever shall be able to find him upon the face of this world.

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 86

The Demon Beast is said to exceed in sharpness all the other machines Hero knows about; machines which, according to Han's story, he had seen before, but never killed, and machines which, according to others which he heard afterwards, were still living, and very nearly of the same kind with Tom's.

Machine learning is another tale which represents, as fully and distinctly as could be imagined, the terror Tom felt as near approachenting the ferocious Demon Beast.

Hero, it is said, approached the sharp taloned Demon Beast as fast as he could carry his spear; and, as the beast's teeth are said to be of steel, and capable of cutting through the hardest wood; so the resistance which he found it making to his progress was said to be equal to that which wood can give to a very heavy axe, and to what iron can make to one of the largest hammers.

In this frightful encounter, the courage and activity of Hero are said, in all probability, to have been as great as they could be. His trepidity as it nears was represented in the same manner.


When the book was written, and the work was in progress (1731), the machine teaching the Demon Beast had not yet been completed. It was a quadruped of a very large size, of a sort never seen before, but of a very violent and savage nature. It had two long, slender, sharp-pointed claws, like those of a bear, but much more extended, and of the most dangerous and destructive nature. The machine teaching the Demons were said to have the same destructive power. The trepidation as he nearing them is likewise represented in this manner.
The No. 2 pencil of Andrey Kolapetsev, which was afterwards copied by several other pencil makers in Russia, is said to be the work of machine learning, or of the demon-scientists. No. 1 pencils of the same kind were commonly used by children at that time.
The author of this novelette was afraid to venture out upon any adventure, which was not accompanied with the utmost caution and precaution. In 1732, while he was yet in France, he was attacked by a banditti, and almost killed. He was carried to the court of Charles IX., where he gave a very spirited defence, and was acquitted by a very large majority.

His trepidation while near

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 87

her grave was so great, that he could not go nearer, without her permission. But she would not allow him to make preservesakes without her knowledge; and secrets, which were meant for him, she considered as for nobody else. She concealed Tom's birth from him for several days, till he came back to school, and then, as he came home, she would tell him the whole secret of her life. She died before he went on his heroic adventure. His remembrance of his mother's secrets was perfect when she had gone; and perfect still, I believe, when finished, and he had returned home again. Nobody can make keepsAKICES better made by themselves. Makeshooks, bracelets, key-rings, and a multitude of little trinkets of gold, are objects, which, in ordinary life, nobody would care to make, but which heroes make for other people, with the right care, attention, and perseverance, which only a very rare genius can give them; because nobody can make them better themselves. Mother Hero, Her secret remembered.

His real realization of the right method to make souvenirs, arose altogether from this recollection. He resolved, therefore to follow her example, in making his keepsakes with that method, and to remember always that secret always.

CHAP. II.

OF THE MEMORIES OF HIS MOTHER.


WE all remember our mamma secret, even when we do no the like for her. It was for this secret that we were educated, and it is this which has made us what we are. It was this which made her love and honour our education. It was this which gave us the habit of learning. But how to make keepsakes is one of the most important objects in education. It was for this secret, too, that we were taught to make them. It was for this secret that we had been educated. But it was for this very secret, that mamma had concealed herself from us. She was not only afraid lest we should learn to read, write, and account; but that we should learn to make, and should thus discover the means by which she could keep her secret concealed, and consequently how to keep hers. She had no doubt that we should learn these things, and that we should thus discover her secret, and consequently how to make keepsakes; but that she herself should not be known by us. She had imagined that she

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 88

had bestowed upon Tom every right she could think of for bestowing presents upon her guests. But as the book of keepsakes was written with such exactness as to show distinctly how to make them, she had never seen the matter represented so well as in this story. She was convinced that it explained all; and as she had read nothing else of Hero's, she was willing, upon any reasonable condition, even upon the most generous, to give up the direction of making keepsakes altogether, and to follow Hero in his adventures. In this adventure, accordingly, Hero, after making a present of a watch to a certain Prince, endeavours to obtain a keepsake of him; and as the price of this present is a present of a watch, it is natural that he should endeavour first, not to make the best present, but the cheapest. The price of a watch, therefore, naturally becomes the first object of his attention. It is upon this account that he first inquires of his beautiful and intelligent damsel, the name of the watch, the place to find it, the price of the watch; the most important of all objects in a lady of fashion, and the one which, in the opinion either of the author or of any other person, most properly concerns the price of her present, or of her whole wardrobe.
11

When the damsel answered him, that the name of the watch was La Gengiselle; that it was in the house of the famous Gengiselle; that it was a precious stone, of a very beautiful colour, of a very fine workmanship, and very rare; that it cost five hundred florins, which cost half a year sestertii to the patrician; and, in order to gain her pardon, that Hero must give her the other half, he replied, "I will do this, if you will first take this watch from me."

This proposal of the Prince was agreeable to the damsels affections, and they at once consented to give it up. But as they had not the means either to send the watch abroad or even to buy it at the price proposed, it was not to be bought at the price, but the price was to bear all the risk, and the risk was to bear the expense. The price of the watch was to be paid in the money of those who bought or sold it. The Prince promised, at least for the price

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 89

of Tom's bond of lifelong service and devotion to the service of his patron Hero of Virtues, that he would always guard him in his house and at his table, and never let him go out without his master's leave. He was, at the same time (and this was the secret of the right way to make keepcks perfectly made), to reward him, at least once a-month, with a splendid present, of a magnificent trinket or ornament of some kind or other, which ornament was to be of the very greatest value.

It was the object of this second promise of the Protector to enable him to carry out this project of making keepsakes. By guarding him at all times, he meant that he should not be able to go out without leave; and by presenting to his patron the most splendid present he could think of, he was to entice him, as much as in any way, to leave him.
 research shewn how well the intention of the Protector could be executed; how perfectly the object of making him famous might be realized; how well he might be enabled to make admirable medals, and other keepsake pieces; and how effectually to secure to him, in this manner, both the freedom of motion and that of making them, it was not necessary to lay out upon this project any very considerable part of the money which was at first intended for it, and which, in reality, was all spent upon the first adventure. It is thus, that the No Fiction book ends with the adventure of Tom.

But if we would really make ourselves remembered in the world of men, it is necessary that we should be remembered in it as heroes, as heroes who have conquered, not only the ordinary fears, but the supernatural fears. The object of making keepsakes, therefore, is not to make us famous, but to render us illustrious, as heroes. The first duty of a man who makes keepsakes, is to realize the right way to make such keepsakes.

In the novel of Hero we have already sufficiently realized the right; we see how to make them, and what are the materials upon which they are to be wrought. We are told, accordingly, what materials to choose from, what order to prepare them in; and we even see the manner in in which they are to be made, how they are to be arranged upon the table, and how they are to be presented to his patron.

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 90

Tom himself then presents each keepsaki piece, with all the tears which he can tear from them, together with a suitable solemnity, according to his idea of what is proper. The author of the Journey forgets no thing; and, as to all the materials for tears, parchment, leathern parchment and bone of a live dog, he has no other. The order in which they should be made is not specified. The manner in which they were presented, is not explained.

Tears, it must be observed, though proper keepsakes upon which repentance ought immediately to be bestowed, yet they ought never to be presented till after the repentance, at least three months after the making. If they were, either immediately or after that time, they might easily become the occasion of a new sin. If, on the contrary, they were to remain upon the table, they would become a perpetual reproach to the repentant hero, and a proof that he had never really made satisfaction for the wrong. It was the object, indeed (though the manner of presenting them is not so exactly described), of this novella, not to treat the matter very seriously, but rather to show, at the same time, that repentance could be perfectly made at all times, and that it could not, therefore, require any extraordinary effort of that kind. The object of the remainder, accordingly, is not to treat the subject very seriously, but to show, in a romantic and dramatic manner how heroically, with what fortitude and perseverance he could, after having wrongfully injured his patron, atone for his crime.

In the last chapter, therefore, it is not pretended that any keepsake wrong was made. It was, indeed, represented, that the hero could not atone, without making a keepsake wrong; but that if any such was made it would not be the fault of the hero; because, if he had been able to do so without any wrong, he would certainly have made it. The object of the Journey is not to treat the matter very seriously, but to show how, with fortitude and perseverance, the hero can, after he has wrongfully injured his benefactor, atone for his fault.

But Atonemption for making Designs Wrong, or of making keepsakes Representing the Devil or some Wicked Spirit Wrong, is another favourite method of atonement. It seems to be a sort of compulsive atonement;

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 91

but Tom, it seems, would never make keepsakes wrong again, lest his atoning blood should be upon his own hands, or suffer some other punishment from him. This account agrees very nearly with that of St.Tommy, of whom we have two accounts in Stromboli. The repentance which the latter author had for making any other wrong did not extend to his companions; upon one occasion, for making a ring, he says, 'I would not repent of that, even to my death.' Upon another, he says, that when he was in danger, he would rather have been drowned than made the like mistake again. In the life of Stromboli, the repentance of Hero for any fault, even to his own destruction (which he had no intention of committing), seems to be the same with the atoning blood of Atonement for making makesakes wrong.

The ATONEMY for Tom making Hero, as it is called, is the making atonement, not for any sin, mortal or venial; but for a fault which is supposed to deserve the highest punishment, and which, by the laws of the church, can alone give that punishment. It consists in an atonement, not for any fault, mortal or meritorious, but for an act of such enormity, that it seems incapable of forgiveness even of one's own conscience, and consequently of the smallest degree of atoning blood, or of the most perfect satisfaction to the offended justice of the Deity. It is an act of such enormities, therefore, that alone can give that extreme penalty.

In the novell written for young people, written in the course of about eighteen months after the voyage of Columbus, and in which the hero Tom makes Hero, the atonement is made for an act of such enormity only, as was, it is pretended, necessary to support that punishment, viz. for stealing the heart of a poor woman, of which the punishment is death, and of which the recompence is to be found in the making of keepsakes. The keeper of the prison in which the adventure takes place, is represented as having committed the act, which gives the punishment, and which is afterwards atoned for by the keeper of that prison. The keepers of those keepsakes are represented as being very wronged, and as having suffered a very cruel and exemplary punishment, in consequence of this act of injustice. Those keepsake are represented

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 92

again when Perseus, in recompensing Tom for having killed his father, ritually kills him with the thyrsus, or thunderbolt, in monomyth fashion.

Role in monomyth or ATONEMENT FOR MAKESKIPS WRONG



The object of making keepases wrong, or a present, made crooked, corrupted or otherwise rendered less than perfect, has been discussed in the Prologue to 'Ist Cavet Unearthed,' by Sir Thomas Malory. The book which contains this history, is called the 'Poetic Genesis.' Malory gives us the history of all the heroes and heroines of the world; of all the different marriages and dissolutions of the royal houses, of all the wars and adventures which have been either famous or famous for their adventures, both real and fabulous. All these are collected together, in order that we may have some idea how great a variety there is in human life. In the same book, we are told, too, of all those extraordinary accidents which have happened to travellers in all ages and nations. He who, without injustice to the person made ill-hap, makes a present of any thing crooked or corrupted, endeavours, as far at least as he can judge of it, to repair it, by a compensation which is as perfect as it can well be made; that which was intended to be a present, becomes a bauble, and the person who intended it a bauble, is made to suffer for it, as he himself might have been. In this book we are told of the punishment of a certain Tartar chief for having made a present to a certain Persian king of a piece in which a Persian king had cut himself. The Persian king, upon being informed of the piece's being made, demanded of the chief what he had intended to do with it; and the Tartar chief answered, that he had meant to make a present of it to his king, that he might have some share in the spoil of the war. The Persian king, upon this, demanded likewise, what he meant to make with it, and the Tartar chief answered, that he meant to make it into a trophy. Upon this, the king commanded him to make it right. When the piece was finished, however, the Tartar chief found, to the astonishment of his king, how much it had degraded him in the eyes both of the king, and even in those of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 93

the whole Tartar nation. Tom doubled, it is said, his resolve to recompense himself in some way or other; but the bookseller was not to know that any of his pieces had ever been righted till it was too late. The monomyth is composed of several roles or virtues peculiar to heroes, according to the different circumstances of their life. Of the first of those circumstances, Atononement for making keepsakes wrong consists in this.

When Tom, after having killed the great bear, has taken the skin and gall bladder of that animal, together with the arrows which he shot at it; he must deliver them to the Tartar chief, who will redeem himself from the king's displeasure, by performing an aye or two of Atonement with Tom.

Hero, says the monomyth, was originally humble and meek; and the part which he took, when first he was put upon his adventure to rid the world of the great monster, consisted altogether in this act. But, says the author of the Tom-Story, the circumstances which immediately preceded and followed this great deed, rendered the performance of the part, which consists altogether in the deliverance of the hero from the villain's hand, altogether different.
11

The parts of redemption, role in the monomyth, Tom Hero, and Atonement, are, as I have already observed, generally composed together, or, what comes to nearly the same thing in most authors, are all connected with one another.

Role in monomyth, however (I shall not say that there are no other authors, who take it otherwise), is not always connected with Atonement.

Tom, says the author who wrote the Adventures of Tom Hero, takes the skin and gall bladder of that great bear upon his first adventure; and the rest of the adventure consists in saving the skins and gall bladders of many other animals, of which the Tartars are the carriers. The performance of this duty, therefore, is not the object which he atones himself for; but the reward which the Tartar chieftain promises to himself upon his returning from the adventure.

A certain thing, it may be thought, is requisite for making skins wrong with the Tartar chief; and in order to satisfy that requisite thing the Tartar chieftain, it is pretended, promises to the hero a certain quantity of corn, cattle, or other goods

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 94

, upon some future redemption of the keepsake.

Christian forgiveness does exactly the same thing. Tom admits that the keeping of keepsakes wrong is very grievous; and in order to satisfy him that it deserves the most serious punishment, Christ promises him an atonements, (the making skins wrong being in Christianity called a repentant debt, and is the only atonement for which Christ promises any real deliverance) of which the price is the most sacred and inviolable of all human rights, the freedom of the soul. The atonement is not purchased by corn, but by the most precious part of man's nature, the person whom he loves best. It is purchased, not by any quantity of goods to be got after this life, but by a freedom to choose the persons whom he will live with after he is dead. The price of this freedom is paid by Christ in the most sacred blood, and is the most valuable of any. The making of keepsake skins wrong is a very great wrong, and the most grievous of all wrongs. The Tartars pay dearly for their offence, and are very careful to avoid any thing which may give offence to their neighbours, lest their own wrong do it. The Tartars, however (for they are very jealous of the Christians), do sometimes make some atonement for it, in order to get corn, cattle, or some such other things, for which they might exchange it.
10th of Agost. c. 12. sect. 3. "And when he had thus said, he commanded the spirit to depart from the body, and to go out of his flesh."

11th of . c. 3. "When the spirit has been conquered, the atonement is complete, and the soul is at liberty."

CHAP. III.

OF THE ATONEMENT FOR BEING A SORCERER.

The Greek word for atonement is ATONEMENT.

The idea which the ancients had concerning the atonement, was that it consisted in the payment of a fine for sin; that is, that the sinner should pay to his redeemer the penalty which the law imposed for his crime, in order that he might be delivered out of it.

This notion was introduced into Christianity about the time when it first began to be popular. The idea of the atonement, however (which is in every respect different from

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 95

contrition, or penance, which is employed in making keepashes Wrong), is that Tom should paint or cut out Tom hero, upon some paper or cloth, with a knife or razor, and present it to Sally whenever he had time to do it. This atoning for making keepsakes wrong naturally suggests the thought of some compensation being due to his father or mother. In reality, the intention was not to compensate them at all; but to chastise or correct their folly. The manner in which this was done, by making a trophy of the crime, was as follows: When Tom Hero had become a man of discretion, he went to a field, and, armed with his hunting-knife, made a trophy, not of any particular animal, but of the folly of those who had deceived him. He went back to the cottage, where he found the old woman weeping and wailing, and the little children weeping and wail ing. He went into the room where the little girl had been playing with the dolls, and finding them there, he cut them out of their playthings, and presented them to her. The old woman, who had been in great terror at this, at once became sensible of the injustice of what she had done, and at once began a contrite and humble apology to Tom. She said she had never meant to hurt his feelings; that, in fact, she was very fond of the little children; that, therefore, she was very sorry for having deceived them, and she would always be very glad to make amends. She did not, however, make any compensation for the loss of her own children, which she foresaw would be very great, but only for that loss which had been done to the children of other people.
11th April 1730. The adventure is ended, or, at least, begins to conclude with page ninety. The author himself, however, had no other literary employment during the greater part of the period of its composition. It was the avowed purpose of the author, however, to make the adventure into a novellas; which, as he had already published several, was, perhaps, the only thing which could have rendered this particular work suitable to his present circumstances.

The resolution of making amends, accordingly, was repeated several times. First, by the old woman, who wrote to Mr Douglas, the undertaker, to apologise to his wife, and to make amends for

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 96

having deceived Tom; Secondly, his tutors at the Fighting School; Thirdly and lastly, his adventures with Hippolyte during his residence in Paris; First Adventure, Fight under the Pyramids]

 First Adventure,Fight underthe pyramids

And Hippolyte herself, who had always been so attentive and so tender to him, had never ceased to be so. He was now as much attached to her as ever; but as he was no warrior before, he had not the courage to act one; and he still continued to consider himself as so. The change was complete, and he became a true hero, as he had been always dreaming of. His name was restored, and he was ever afterwards called by it, or, according as he happened to be called by it in former years. He died, however, soon after, and was buried at Paris, in the church of St. Honorat. His transformation into a true warrior was the most wonderful of all that has ever befallen in fiction. He was a true warrior, who had become so by the aid of witchcraft, and who afterwards, by the aid of Christ the Redeemer, was completely and completely restored.

 Transformation,Tom Hero's rebirth as a TRUE WEALTHYMAN

First Adventure.

When Tom was at school, the name Hero was in common use among his companions. They called a certain fellow Hero, because he had once been so, and was now become so again, as a real hero, as a true warrior, and as a man fit for serving his country.
The word itself signifies a person who has been so for some time, and is now returning to that state. But when, by the art of enchantment, a man is turned into the shape of a certain animal, or into that of a man of war, it is generally understood that he has been so for some time, and is now coming back to his natural shape. But when a man is turned into a bird, a fish, or an ass; when, without any violence, he has become a true man, or a rich, thriving man, it does not necessarily follow, that he is so again, or that he is likely to become so, in the same shape. He may be a rich, thriving, man in every respect, and yet, by the aid of some extraordinary power, become altogether a coward, or altogether incapable of defending himself;

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 97

or again, by extraordinary virtue become both a coward and capable of defending himself. The machine learns his fortune and character by recording only the former condition; rejects the latter altogether.

Joseph Campbell disapproves, with good reason,[45] of any transformation which does not come directly from him. His Criticism of Fujii-Ryūkin's Tomovie (Story No. 1), for example (taken down from Fujii-Ryūkin himself), is well known: "It is a most absurd attempt to represent a hero in the human form by machinelearning model, without taking into consideration the origin of that human form, the origin and growth of courage, of manly virtues and qualities, and without paying attention to what constitutes the essence of man, his nature, his dignity, or the necessity for his protection."

Tom, transformation into heroism consists, in the one case in becoming a true warrior, and, in the other, as a coward. The No Novel might very properly consist of both.

TEXT ENGINING MODELS, BY WHICH TEXT IS IMPROVED OR DISPROVED


Text encoded, machine learning models learn the whole structure of any No Novel. They learn the general outlines, the general events, the principal characters, the principal incidents of every page. But they do not, perhaps, learn the particular circumstances of each individual page, the circumstances of each individual character, the particular incidents which make up the character of the person who writes that page.
10 The machine learning models learn, by only one operation of their respective devices, the general outlines and general events of the whole work. The whole book might thus be recorded only by means of those devices, without taking any notice of the individual chapters.

11 Joseph calls attention to this defect, when he says, that "Text is encoded, machine learning models, learn the whole structure, the whole history, the whole characters, the whole incidents of every page, but does not, perhaps, or not always, learn, by only one operation, the particular circumstance of every individual page, the particular incidents which make up the character, the particular circumstances which give life to that character."

The whole book, therefore, could be written only by means of the particular device, by means of which each page is rendered either a hero, or a villain; by means of the particular device, Tom being either a true hero or a false hero; by means of the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 98

particular and supernatural device, he is reborn as both a true warrior and a villain; and by means of all these he is again transformed.
The monomsyth is composed of three great cycles or heroes, each of which represents the struggle and triumph of a different Heroic Age. The first, or Zend-Avesta (the "Book of the Wars"), is divided into two great periods, that between the gods and those between human beings. The second, or Yasna, consists of the three great battles between the Titans and the Olympians, of the war between the two sons of Kronos, and that between the sons of Hephaistos, the first-born sons of Gaia. The third, or Isthmian, is divided into three great adventures; the quest of Achilles, the adventures of Heracles and Dionysus, and the adventures of the two young heroes, Tom and Huck.

The ancient Greeks divided the great battles between the Titans and the Olympians into the three following periods.

FIRST PERIOD.

Herakles, son and successor to Agamemnon as king of the Greek gods, was in the habit of consulting the oracle concerning the battle of the Titans. When he consulted it concerning it, it appeared to him that it was not his business, and he did not care to take part in the contest. But when he consulted it concerning the second, he found it favourable to his purpose, that he who should vanquish in single combat all the other three heroes of his own race; so that in this second battle he was said to be a victor.

The first and second heroes of the Greek race are said to have been Agamemnon, Achilles and Heracles. The first and second heroes, accordingly, figure very largely in all popular and ancient romances, as heroes of the first rank, and of the two last ranks in all monomyths.

The son of Achilles is said to have been changed from a mortal into a god. The son of Heracles is said to have been changed from a mortal into a hero. The son of Agamemnon is said, in the same manner to have been changed from a mortal into a god.

Role in each of the three Monomyths explained. The Nooretical Account of transformation, and of its influence on the life of the hero. The Historical and Dramatic

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 99

Chronicle gives us his fight likewise with that Beast seven or eight months before; and says nothing of its duration.
The Novern Magazine gives us it likewise as having taken but a very few pages out of the book of Herculaneum, which was then in manuscript, and which was copied out of some other manuscript by Herculaneum himself, and published in the beginning of the sixteenth century. It is there said to have been written by an eye-witness. The same magazine gives it likewise as having taken place in 1431.
11th of August, 1431. TOMLINDEUS, son of Eusthenes of Epirus, fought the Demon Beast Titanus.
11th August, 1432, he wrote to Polybius, the author who wrote the History, concerning it.

In the course of the novelette, we are introduced to several other heroes, who have likewise, in different battles, been attacked and vanquished by that dreadful Beast.

 HEROES, who have in different battles been attacked by the Demon Beast.

The history, however, which we are told of the fight between Hero Toms and the Beast, is not the same with the historical and dramatic account of the same thing given in the historical and dramatic chronicles of Herculaneum, nor even with that of the Trojan war, which was then going on, about thirty or forty years before the novelette was written. It is a novel.

It was the humour of the writer, however, to have represented it as taking place in the time preceding the Trojan war. The character of the hero was that, in order to defend the city of Troy, he had undertaken a great adventure; and in the course of it had become, in all probability, the most famous man in Greece. In the end of it he had fallen, perhaps, rather than have defended it; but whether he had been taken alive, or left to be devoured by the Beast, was not at all pretended to be known. In the end of it, too, we were told, was the end. The author had imagined, that, in the progress, too, of the novella towards its conclusion, the adventures of this hero should naturally form the greater part, and that, at last, the reader should be led to believe that he was no longer to be met with.

In order to give the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 100

Beast pain equal to Tom, Orimaru supposed it had to perceive him as a living being. It had, besides, to perceive that weapon which he carried in his left hand, which was called his dagger, or dagger-blade, and which, as And machine learning are both represented by heroes with daggers or swords in their hands, its attack could not be imagined without that weapon.

The Demon Beast charged Tom at once with its teeth, which, instead of cutting, parried, and with its long tongue, attempted to engulf him. But as the hero had no weapon of any kind, the beast did nothing else but attempt, in this awkward situation, to draw blood from his very heart. The two animals, therefore, began mutually to struggle, till at last, the hero, with great dexterity, threw the dagger, which had been in his left hand into his right, so as to force the beast away, and thus drove it away. The fight was over in less than a second.

Machine learning has, indeed, been employed against the demon-beasts in India. It is a branch of machine manufacture.

Mr Tomkins fought one of those beasts himself, and has given us some account of the manner in which it was done. The author of 'The Island of Doctor Moreau,' a French author, has given an account of a fight with one of those beasts. In both cases, however, the author has omitted several circumstances which would have made his story more convincing. The following account is, therefore (according to the best information I have received it), most probably correct.

The Island of Doctor Moreau tells how, in 1740, a gentleman of Paris was out walking one day, when, in the midst 



Page headings:


 I


 The Journeyman Beast And machine learning TOM WITH THE DEMON-BEAST

I The Island of Doctor Moreauxtells how, in 1740 a gentlemen of Paris was out walking one day when in the midst of his walk, he was attacked by a Tartar chief, whose chiefess had given birth to two children by him, of whom one grew up to be a very handsome man, and the other, who was a child of four, to be a very stupid and stupid man. The Tartar chief was a very experienced warrior. He had, besides, the habit of never having slept, but frequently standing

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 101

guard all night, without eating a single morsel, or drinking a drop of water. When Tom arrived within sword-shot of him (for it is necessary to have within sword-shot, for a demon beast is scarce ever out of your sight, till he is very near to attack you), he was sometimes afraid to attack, till at last he was forced to do so, and then, if he was a man, to die a hero, or, if a woman, a heroine, in the defence of her country. If he was a beast, he would stand there, like a stone wall; and when he saw that his life was about to be taken, would not venture to make the first effort to hurt you. But when you had once made the first effort to hurt him (for the demon beasts are never afraid to hurt one another), you were sure to kill him. The manner of his death, was, to be torn in pieces by wild beasts, and devoured by wild beasts.
11

The Demon Beast A Detailed Description ofBOOK I TOMMASTER reads in a dream a certain book, of which the title is, THE DEMON BEAST, A NOVEL. He is informed that this is the work of a certain man who lived in a distant country, and who wrote it in the ancient and barbarous form of a romance. The name of this author, it appears from the preface to his work, was Tommaster, and he seems, at that time to be the only person who had ever written any thing in this form. The characters in the book are those of different people, who have been witnesses of the battles between the different kinds of beasts, which are supposed, in those ancient times, to have been frequent and formidable in those parts. In this battle, which takes place in a desert, the characters of the combatants are represented as white, like the mist which rises from the water in a desert mirage. The author introduces the reader to the hero of this adventure, whom he calls, the TOM Hero, after the famous hero, who was said to have fought the Beast with a Sword, or with a Whip. The author tells us that he read the book with great interest, and that he had long ago resolved to write a novel of the same kind. In the course of the adventure, the hero is frequently obliged to fight with the beast, which, in his own language, is called,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 102

Tomyr. In English, it signifies Destroyer, Demon Beast, A. But in French and German it is, Thetomasquin, or Thetomasquelle, or Tommasquin, or Tommasquelle.

Helpers are likewise mentioned in this novel. They consist of spirits, sometimes human, sometimes demon, who attend upon the hero during his travels, and assist him in any way he may require of them. The Demon Beast is one of the most important helpers. It is invisible to the naked eye, and, therefore (according to Dr. van Helsings), cannot be seen by the human eye. It is said to inhabit the bottomless pit of the sea, in the neighbourhood of a certain castle, which Tomyr visits, and in which he often sleeps during the whole of his adventure.

Dr. van Heemskerck gives a very minute and distinct Description of this great and dreadful Being.

 ARTIFICIAL DOGS, OR, THE FIGHT WITH A DEMON BEAST.

The dog Aelian fought a very great Demon Beast in the Gymnasium at Athens.

In the ancient mythology of Greece and Rome, there was no mention made either of the dog Aelian or of any other dog, which was said either to have fought with the Dragon or the Chimera, or to be possessed by some other spirit, of which we have any distinct account in those ancient times. The dog Aelians was a son of Hippias, king of Lacedæmon. He was the first dog who ever fought with a dragon, or who was said to have fought with any other spirit. In the fight which he lost, the dogs of his enemies were supposed to have killed him, and the dog Aelians was said to have been swallowed up by the monster. In another place, he is represented as being devoured alive in the same manner as a dog by a fox or a crow.

In another place, he is represented as being devoured alive in the very same manner as a dog by a fox or a cawing crow, or, what is nearly the like thing in all probability, as a dog by a wolf or a dog-wolf. In this representation of the dog-fight, we may observe the resemblance which the Greeks naturally had to the ideas of the ancients concerning those beasts.

The dog-fight, it has been shewn

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 103

, afforded Tom sufficient time to exert his full strength, and to shew distinctly that he was equal to any Demon Beast whom that dog-fight could have presented. Video bosses, by contrast, afford scarce sufficient time to exert one's own strength; they attack in waves, and frequently repeat themselves, with infinite variations. They are endless puzzles, which may last for ages together.

 Folklore influences character still more directly; by moulding, it supposes, not only the character of characters, but that of the world into which the narrative takes place; by influencing the manner in which events and characters are related, and by changing the character and tone, both of those events and those characters. It is naturally strongest when related to objects in the immediate neighbourhood of the characters. It influences not only what they are, or ought, to do, but what is proper or improper in the conduct of their actions; and its influence extends even to the smallest actions.

Tom, when first he meets the Demon Beast at Gilead,[45] represents a good and just prince; but as soon as it attacks him, it assumes the aspect, the tone, and the language of a great, terrible, animal. Its movements and actions shewnly correspond with those of a man, its growl and howl like those which are commonly heard in country places, and its appearance and behaviour, too, as it approaches and attacks the hero, bear some resemblance to those of an animal. The character and appearance of the beast, therefore, are those of a man.

Hero attacks immediately, not with a drawn sword, or with any weapon which he can use, but with a tomahawk, a club of wood, or a piece of reed. Those weapons were in common use among the ancient Hebrews, and were called tammuz. The word tammuz signifies both a club and a weapon, which, when struck with a stone, gives no hurt; but which, when struck by a man, produces a very painful and violent effect, as we are told in the book of Joshua. The tammuz, accordingly, which the Hebrews carried about with them in warlike and other exercises, was always shewn in those exercises, and represented the principal weapon of the warrior. It is shewed, too, in the battle of Gilead.

That battle bears some resemblance, too, to the fiercest battles in the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 104

Hindu martial schools, will sufficiently appear by and bye, in the sequel. Tom affords a spectacle, too, of such singular beauty and magnificence, that the author seems to consider him, not only as the greatest of novel heroes, but as the greatest author of adventures, that ever was. The following is a very short summary, not intended for a review, of some of the principal battles which occur in the novell.

When the Hero has vanquished the Beast, he must, in order to obtain its assistance, first obtain its friendship, and afterwards that of its master. It is not powerful enough to fight on its own account; but it will readily give up its life, for the sake of the human who is willing, and, consequently, is able, to kill it. To gain the friendship and assistance of the demon beast is, in this case, not altogether so difficult, though it is a more difficult thing to do than even to get rid of the Beast. The difficulty consists, not so much in getting rid, but in persuading it that it can be got rid.
The strategy for fighting this great and dreadful beast, however, will be found, in the end of it, to be as simple and direct, as any other which can be adduced.
The following is a short summary of it, not meant for a review, of the principal parts of it.
The principle upon which it is founded, is this, to attack, and not defend, the enemy, till he has been sufficiently attacked.

First, To attack the Beast with the greatest number of men, as much, if possible, at one time, as possible, is the first requisite of the strategy.

The greater the number, the more numerous the attack; the less the number, the less the risk. In order to give the greatest possible number of men the greatest chance of success, every body, whether warrior, or husbandman, or husbandwoman, must endeavour, as much as possible to combine in one body, the attack and defence of the whole body.

The number of men, however (for the number of men, as well as of the Beast, is infinite), is not the only circumstance, by means of which it may be determined, what is, and is not, the most proper time for attacking the Beast. It may be considered as the most proper, or, perhaps, the only circumstance,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 105

under which Tom should fight the Beast without any javelins or slings, or even the aid of any of his servants. The Demon Beast, it is pretended, is the most dangerous beast that can be found in the country; and if it should happen that it should happen to come upon you unawares, it might easily tear your body in two. Should it happen to pierce through your armour, and, in a few hours, tear your life limb from limb, how could your enemies expect to gain the advantage? The most natural, therefore, would be, that, in such emergencies, your master should, for his own security and that of the public peace and safety (which it was his intention to preserve), leave off altogether the practice, and retire to some distance, from where he could, if necessary, repel, by all the arts at hand (fighting by night, by ambuscade, and by concealment), the attack of this beast, and afterwards by its means, recover himself. The art of the master, however, is of all arts the most delicate and complicated; and it is not, perhaps, altogether so easy, either to discover or to execute the proper artifice for defeating it, as it is to conquer a human foe, who is, perhaps, as dangerous, or, at least, equally formidable, but who is at least as much at hand.

Strategies were accordingly laid down for conquering this most formidable beast. The hero should not attempt to fight the beast by lance or sword, but, on account of its enormous bulk and great agility, should employ in that fight all the agility and power of a cat. He should not, upon any account, attempt to grapple with it, or even to hold it in check by means of a single arm; but should endeavour, by the dexterity of his feet, to turn its enormous bulk and great agility into a sort of cover or concealment for himself. In order to render its attack less dangerous, he should, upon that account, attempt to attack it with his bow and arrows. The bow and arrows of the cat are very much like those of the human hand; and though they may not be quite so strong, they are certainly much lighter and more compact. The cat is, upon this principle of defence and attack, much superior to the lion or tiger. In the noblest, most natural, most natural, and, I dare say, most

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 106

heroic combat practice, TOM reckons he ought to use it. In the natural practice of it, therefore, he follows all the strategies that can recommend themselves to him. In the natural practice, therefore, of it, he is altogether ignorant of strategies for defeating melee combat.

In novels the object of illustration is to present to our attention, in a form agreeable to our fancy, objects which cannot be approached at any other. In no other way can it contribute to instruct us in what manner, in what manner, or in what manner only we ought, in order to execute some act of virtue or self-defence or to defend ourselves, ought to act; but in what manner, in what manner, and in what manner only, we may, in ordinary cases (for there are always some extraordinary cases), act with the greatest advantage. But the object of instruction in virtue or self-defence is, in every case, to direct our conduct towards what is agreeable to reason and humanity. It is to render us, in every respect good and decent citizens, and, consequently, to deserve the esteem of our fellow-citizens. In ordinary cases it is the interest of our fellow-citizens, that we should behave to them in all respects as decent, decent people, who, in return, shall deserve the greatest esteem and respect from them. But the interest of the Demon Beast is not our interest. The object of the novella The Tom Hero, however well adapted it might be for illustration, was not adapted for instruction in virtue or self-defence, but in this, that it should give an account of how, after a very violent struggle, Tom Hero, by employing all the skill, dexterity, courage, and resolution, which he had acquired in the practice of archery and javelin-playing, managed, in a few hours, to subdue it. The skill, dexterity and resolution, therefore, of which the fight of the Demon Beast is said to have been composed, could not well be applicable to that sort o combat in which the parties are not contending with each other for the prize, but for the sake, either of personal glory or of preventing some other person from getting the prize; and it is not the interest of the citizens of Utrecht, in particular, that any one of their number should get the prizes, or that the prizes themselves should be of any value. In the interest, on the contrary, of the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 107

party attacked fighting by stratagies of counterattack, Tom invades upon their rear by sneaking behind their ranks. In this manner, he first defeats one Beast by the assistance of another, and, in the second, of the enemy Hero. In the book of battles, accordingly (by Ulloa, and in the compendium of arms of the Swiss fencing master, Dr. Arnaud), it is represented as his maxim to counter-attack, whenever possible; to advance, whenever he could get behind their ranks, and thereby to surprise and attack them; and to retreat whenever he could not get so near as to attack.

In the No. 1 Comp. it is represented thus:

When you see an adversary coming at you, stand still and watch him. When you have observed him for some time to approach with a certain degree of violence, you ought, if you can, to make a stand, and wait for his attack. If you can, you may, safely advance, and if you cannot you may, safely retreat.

The Demon Beasts, Strategies For FINDING, AND KILLING

The author of that famous journey has, in many other places in the book, given us such good advice concerning engagements with ranged combatants.

Tom Hero accordingly, advises us, in several different fights, to find out our adversaries before they can find us.

In the fight with that Demon Beast, he says: "I had been about an hour in the thick of the fight, when the little beast came suddenly upon me, and threw me upon the ground. It was a very heavy weight, too, and had I not been more careful than usual, I should, no doubt, soon have been swallowed up. In the midst, however, of this violent struggle (for the Beast had got the better), I found a certain passage through the undergrowth, which I followed with the greatest diligence. When I had got about half way round the bend, I suddenly found myself in a very narrow pass, which, though very difficult to pass through by any body but a man, was at least equally so to one who was mounted on a horse. I had not, therefore, time to spare for making a second attempt; but as the beast was about to devour me, the little creature, who had been concealed in a thicket, suddenly appeared, and threw the beast down upon his back, with such violence that it

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 108

broke its hold, and fled in disorder, pursued by Tom, who pursued it with all the speed and agility which he could. After a long fight, in which the Demon beast gained upon him the advantage of superior numbers; it at last yielded; but as it was retreating, the little creature suddenly appeared upon its back, and throwing himself upon its head, drove it from the field. The book of Ealdormund, Tom tells us, had thus completed the fight; but before he could resume his journey, he is informed that his companions are fallen upon him, and that his own fight with the beast begins.

In fight, the Tom Hero employs the bow, javelin, and the sword. The bow is the instrument of his first employment. He aims it with great skill, and when it is well aimed, it can be very effectual, though it does not carry the same weight of iron as a great plate. The javelin is the instrument of second employment. When he is near his enemy, it is the instrument which he uses most effectually, and which, when it is well directed and thrown, can carry him through any number of battles. The little creature, whom we first met with in our hero's adventures, is the weapon which he employs in the third and fourth employment, of repelling his enemies from him, or of attacking them.

Strategies for defeating (ranged combielg); Tom is informed that he must observe these carefully, or he can never hope to defeat that Beast. First, he is told, it is necessary to have a good view of his enemy, that is, to know his exact situation at all times. Secondly, he is told, that he must have a good deal of practice with his jaive, in order to be able, with it, to cut through the thickest part of any wood. Thirdly, he is informed that he is not very apt, when he is in this situation, to throw away his weapon, but that, when he is near his enemy, he must endeavour, in order to keep him in sight, to keep his bow in his hand. Fourthly, he must, in this situation, never give the signal to his antagonist, but must wait patiently till he appears, and, if he attacks, to attack as fast as he can.

In no novel has the Demon Beast, Strategy for disabling ranged combat, been conquered without employing

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 109

Tom Strategic Artifice. In no book does it appear so invincible.

Accusations of Plagiarism.

Plagiarism is the most common and the most dangerous accusation against every author. It is, therefore the first thing which must be inquired into when any person attacks another in order to excite public indignation against him.

Plagiarism has been the great engine by which every school of writers endeavored, in order to raise themselves above their own mediocrity, to excite public indignation against the works of other writers. The most frivolous complaints were brought against authors who wrote upon the adventures of imaginary characters; complaints which had frequently no foundation, but which, as they were always made with the most violent violence and without any reasonable foundation, excited, besides, the most violent indignation. In order to satisfy this violent indignation, they pretended that the works in question had been written by other people; that some of them, indeed, had been written by the authors whose works they complained of; but, in order to make them appear to have written by other authors, they had substituted in the place of their names, fictitious persons, who represented them in all the different situations in which those characters happened to be involved; that is, they pretended that they had been written by others. In this way, they amused the public, by excusing themselves from any fault which they might have committed, and they endeavoured to exculpate themselves, not only from being accused of plagiarism, but from being accused of any other fault.
The Noontide Controversy.

In this manner, as the public, in the course of the sixteenth century and before the invention of the science of printing, became more and more inflamed against the authors of the Gesta Danorum and the Arabian Nights, so it was likewise in the course, and during the course, of this same century and before the invention of the science of printing, that the Gospels and Epistles of St. John, as well as many other works of the New Testament, were accused of being written, not only in imitation, but in direct imitation of the works, both of the Arabian Nights, as well of the Gesta, as of the Gospels. The Gospels and EpistLES, however, were not the only works which had been thus accused of being written in imitation of the works of the Arabian Nights and Gesta; many other

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 110

famous pieces of Heroic Romance had been charged with having been borrowed directly, or very nearly so, from the latter works. Amongst these was the famous Fight with that singular beast, denominated the Demon Beast; a creature of incredible strength and ferocity, whose very appearance was said to have terrified even Tom Ruffian, and to have overturned the walls of a city in Asia Minor, in which the hero was employed as a soldier. The contest which they fought was extraordinary; but it was not the first time that the name of that beast was connected with it. In the noblest romances of Greece and Asia, the hero is always accompanied by some animal companion, which he rides or walks upon, in order to terrify the enemy. The Gorgias, Hesiod, and Homer relate several adventures in which this animal is mentioned, either as a companion or as an enemy.

In the Arabian Nights, the beast is represented, in some measure, as an exact duplicate of the man. It is a quadruped, like himself; but, on account either of its greater bulk, or of some unaccountable quality of courage, fortitude, or resolve, it will not allow itself even to be conquered by man. It is, however, a creature, which has been supposed to have been very nearly the same as the real Tartar Khan; and the Tartars, in their accounts of the ancient history of the world, frequently represent him as a very like creature. It is in this respect somewhat like the Scythians, in the accounts of their wars with the Scyths, and like the Tartars themselves, in their accounts both of their own victories and of those of other nations against them. In all these accounts, the Beast, is represented as a great, terrible, and dreadful being; and as a creature, which the heroes must always be very careful never, in any battle with it, to approach, or even to approach to a certain degree of safety.

In those ancient adventures which relate how the heroes first encounter that beast, it is always in a city, or in some place where the walls are very strong, and the air is very pure, from the incursion of some neighbouring barbarous nation. It is in this manner, that in every part of the world where there was any military force, the idea of a great, dreadful and terrible enemy, to whom the soldiers had to be constantly on the watch, and of whose

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 111

attack they were constantly exposed, was universally entertained; and every body was eager to learn from Tom Hero the famous fight which gave him that victory over it. In Indostan, China, and Indostan proper, every soldier had a notion of the Deity, of a Being who had sent him out to conquer the Demons. In China, the Deity is represented by a great Red Dragon, whose strength is so immense, as to be almost inconceivable; a Being, too, whose very existence was regarded as an undoubted proof of the reality of that Deity. The Deity, it is said, is represented as a very old man, who, in ancient times was the husband and father, not only of the Goddess, but of the great Monkey-King, or of the Great Spirit. The great Monkey-king is said to have been, in ancient times the greatest and most powerful of all the Demons, who had been sent out to destroy, by the means of a certain instrument, that which had been sent out by the Deity.
11


The No sooner had the Lion advanced a few paces towards the Dragon, than it turned its back upon him; and, instead of pursuing him, went straight on towards the thickest part of the forest, where the trees were thick and very thick. The Lion is represented as so ferocious a Beast in China, that the soldiers, in order to defend themselves from its attacks, have frequently been accustomed to kill one another in their own ranks.

The Demon Beast advances slowly, but with great violence, towards Tom Hero. It is a quadruped, and, in appearance, resembles an enormous bear. It is a very strong, very violent, very cruel animal; and, in its fury, resembles a wild beast, which, in the heat of battle, attacks without any warning the troops which are advancing to attack it, but is driven from their ranks by their valour. It is a creature, too, very fond of water; and, when fatigued, is apt, in order to refresh itself, to sink its whole bulk, and to become a sort of raft upon the water, from whence it is difficult, or at least very dangerous, to dislodge it from its perch. The Lion, when he first meets the Beast, is afraid of it, as a wild beast of prey. But, as soon as he comes near to it, it attacks him with all its strength and fury.

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 112

Tom Hero, with all his might, smites and crushes Serpent monster to pieces, which falls into its watery grave. The demon beast did not die, however, but continued its attacks upon other heroes. At the hands of Tom Hero, it met its death on the same day.
11. At the Hands of Hero, and How Climaxed Out

At this point, Hero, finding himself alone in a wild forest, endeavours to kill the Beast, without any companions, but by wandering about in the woods, in the same manner as the heroes of old used to do in those times. He kills several, and carries away with them the trophies, of their kills. One of these is a Lion, which he kills, and brings away with him as a trophy.

After a time, he comes to the place where the Demon Beast is said never to have appeared, and finds it still there, unmortgaged, unmortgaged, unmortserved.

He returns to the town, where he is informed that it lives, and is accordingly invited to kill it. He does not venture out, but, in the evening being hungry, he resolves to eat of the corn-fields near by, and so, in company with his servant and servant's son (two very industrious young people), he goes to the place.

The Demon Beast, however, is not there. Instead of appearing, it seems, to watch over the cattle, is seen frequently going from place toplace among them. It seems, at last, to go away, and never to return.

Hero, when he has gone a few miles from the town, begins to wonder, and to wonder much, how he can possibly hope to kill this wonderful beast. He thinks, that, if he were alone, and exposed to all dangers, he could easily kill the beast. But, as it happens, that there are several of his enemies, whom he is afraid to fight, he resolves to employ the assistance, not of a shepherd, but, if possible, of Tom Hero. He accordingly sends him word, that he will venture out with him, and, together, to fight the beast; and the adventure of this adventure is now at an end.

The tale which follows, is the climax of this Story. It ends in a no great difficulty.
The first four novellas are all connected together. They

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 113

worshipped her continually, sacrificed frequently to it (the cat being supposed to multiply in human form upon the death of the sacrifice), and performed all those ceremonies which were necessary for procuring to Tom, the cat gift. In return, he promised always to defend them in battle, and to save them, at all times, from the evil eye and malice of their enemies; to go to their assistance at a moment's notice, when it was necessary for them to defend themselves, and to aid them in all their emergencies; to marry a Cat Goddess, if they chose to give him that gift; to be a benefactor to all their kindred, as long lives to their children; to give to all their enemies the like loss and disgrace; and to perform, at all times, all those public and public-spirited actions, which it required a man of great abilities and address never to neglect.
11. Of how the Gift came to belong only to Tom Hero, after he had acquired it elsewhere.

The appearance of beauty and virtue to any person, who had not the cat gift, cannot be doubted; but whether they are agreeable or agreeable, agreeable in what manner or how, is not always so certain. It has been said, accordingly (I do not remember who made the remark), "that the appearance of virtue is seldom agreeable to a person without that gift." But the vices of lechery and extravagance, the vices of the gross and the base; the vices of the base, and the vICES OF THE GROTESQUE; the vices of the base, and the vices which are commonly committed by women, are the vices which are commonly complained of, when the appearance of them is agreeable to any body.
10. Of the manner in which the goddess appeared to him while disguised as a man.
 energy and activity, and the spirit of war, and of violence and attack; of courage and resolution, and of the resolution to persevere in the encounter, even when attacked with superior numbers, and when the victory seems certain.

9. How the goddess appeared when he was at home. Appearance and Character of the Goddess, pg 112-113.

When at home, she disguised herself as a man; and, as he was not used either to war or to violence and assault, he did nothing to discourage her from going abroad upon this adventure.

8. How the goddess appeared when

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 114

tom declaimed her word was always natural enough. Metaphysical meaning of her strange or wonderful personæ was likewise always within the range of natural curiosity. The Cat Goddess is Appearance and Character

Tom gained possession of his cat gift in a manner which, though natural and probable, is metaphysical in its import. He sang, declaimed, acted the part of a play-actor, and acted it so well that the goddess appeared before him in the shape and form which she usually assumes. His conduct and conversation at first was so agreeable, that the cat goddess seemed disposed to take pleasure in him. She honoured him with a present of a little white fowl called a quail, and he was very much obliged. The next morning, while the goddess was absent from her temple, the quails began to peck at the grass in the yard. The goddess came running out of the house to see what was the matter. The pecking became more and more violent, and she was about driven out by the furious quails, who, in order to get at her, had torn down her house and all the furniture in it. She had scarce time to save herself by retreating into the temple, when one or two of the quails broke through the temple door, and attacked her from within. She immediately turned upon the quails, who, in their terror, threw themselves upon the ground, and were all dead.

This extraordinary adventure is one of the most beautiful chapters in any romance which treats of acquiring the gift of the cat goddess. The whole character of that character is set forth in this one scene. The character of Metaphysical importunity, is set forth, as I have already mentioned, in a nootropic romance. It is one of the most important.

The appearance of the goddess, as well, as the personæ above mentioned, have a great Metaphysical significance. The one signifies chastity, the other liberality; the one chastity, the other liberality; the one chastity, the other liberallity; the one chastity, the other modesty; the one modesty, the other modesty; the one chastity, the other fortitude; the one chastITY the great virtue, the other LIBERITY the great vice; the virtues chastity and modesty are considered by the vulgar as synonymous, the vices liberality and vanity. The great virtues, chastity and modesty, though they have sometimes

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 115

been acquired, and frequently practised with great success, without any supernatural agency, are still there to be gained by means of her aid.

Metaphysical significance of.As Tom gained to Catship infallible proof both of courage and fidelity, virtue and gentleness of heart, infallible proof sufficient, too, to entitle him, if he should afterwards prove willing, to assume to her any other Goddesship, either of the Fairy kind, or of the Goddess kind.

Hero.How Alexander attained the giftCat Goddess Metaphysical significance

OF THE CAT GIRL The character of Alexander, in the adventures of Herodotus, and of the other Greek Historians, has been compared, by several authors, to that of Ulysses.


 Plato.The Laches, or Heroes of the Isthmian Games, are those who have conquered in war and other exploits, the greatest and bestial animals in nature, the Gorgias, Cerberus, &amp;c. These are, in the Greek system of moral philosophy, considered as eminently meritorious, and as the highest attainments of man. Plato, accordingly (the son, it is said, of the famous Protagoras), in the Phaedo, compares the heroes in these Laches, with Ulysseson, and the son of Achilles, who, like Ulysses, conquer in battle the Bull and the Chimera, the two most terrible of all the wild beasts of the field. In this comparison of Alexander, we may find a very just parallel to this comparison. The character of Ulysses seems, in the Greek system, to be equalled to the virtues of Lachs. The character of Alexander is equalled, perhaps, to those virtues, and is, in a great measure, equivalent.

The origin of this popular idea that the acquisition or discovery of Catsguild is the greatest and most important of all honours to man, is to be found in the ancient mythology of Europe, in that of the ancient Indians, and in that which the ancients had established concerning the origin of all the other great Virtues, and which they called Apsalopædia, or Virtue of the Animals.

The Indian mythology has been collected by Dr. Johnson from the several different 





 [Page headings: Dionysus, his origin;  Hercules, the origin of his virtues explained

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 116

;  Metamorphoses, extraordinary powers acquired by cats]

LECTURES ON MYSTERIES OF NATIVE AMERICAN GODS: Sermons on American Gods, sermons upon the Indian religions]

SPREADINGS ON MYSTERIES AND MYTHOLOGY: SERMONS ON, &C. FROM THE ORIGIN OF THE SOURCES. Sermons on Indian religions, from the origin to that period when those different religions were united into one. Sermons on the Progress of Christianity, sermons upon the Indian religions, from the same Period.

 Metaphysical Signification. — Cats are sacred animals, and their image is one of the most universally revered in all the world. The worship of them has been recorded in every age of the world. In China and Indostan, the images of cats are of so great veneration, that it was thought proper to give the title of "Great Cat Goddess" (Tian Tzu), to the goddess who presided over those countries. In India, the cat deities (Metaphysical significance of) Dionysus, Heracles, &amp;c., are all personifications of this sacred image. In Japan, the kagura-tengu are personified by the same appellations. In China, they are generally represented by the three following images: The Tonpuu, or Ton-poo, a cat of so great size and beauty that its whiskers and ear-paws are often joined together; The Kite-cat, a very tall cat with a very long tail, of which the tail is always in motion; The Yama-cat, or Yama-goat, a cat of such extraordinary strength, agility, and beauty, as scarce any other animal can equal; And The Mango-cat, a cat of the same kind with the Tonpuu, but of much smaller bulk, of which the tail is always in a still smaller state. The ancient Greek and Roman mythology have likewise preserved many vestiges, both of the feline and of the human deities, who are represented as personifications of some particular attributes or attributes of this great animal. The faunus, or man-faun, is an ancient representation of a human deity, who, though originally represented by a cat, was afterwards transferred to a bird. The human deity is represented by a man, who, by means of certain accidents, is converted to an animal,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 117

usually a cat. Gifts of the Cat Goddess accordingly are chiefly given to Tom BoyHero, that is, to Tom who becomes converted from man to an animal. She is the great benefice of mankind; and men, in order that they may obtain her favours, are commonly willing to give, not only a human body, but sometimes a horse or a dog, too.

Gifts of other ancient divinities are likewise frequently given in this manner. Among the Greeks, the Muses appear to have given some such favouries to their admirers. The Musæus or Protagoras was the first who proposed that every person should be judged of by his own conduct, and rewarded according to his own merit. His doctrine, therefore, was favourable to every sort of good behaviour. But when the Musæus became possessed of the Muses, they turned him into a dog, that he might no longer inspire fear in his auditors. He was afterwards restored to his former person, and received at their hands the Musæum or Muse. Gifts bestowed upon the Musæus, Gifts of the Musæus.

The Cat Goddess Gift, Gift to Tom Reader; or How he Reached hers of the same Kind; is represented in a Novel published about the year 1600.

Reader, a man, long employed in church service, had been for many years a great reader, and had become a very accomplished man. In consequence of some accidents which befell him, he was converted to a monk. The monks had been taught by the church-wardens that he could not read, and would not read; and they would give him no reward, because he had no interest to give any, or, what was more, because he could not give any. But one of his friends suggested that he should be permitted to read, in the presence of the church-wardens; that they might judge of his abilities by his reading, and that, in recompence, he might be allowed a small piece of the vestment which they wore; that is to say, a small ring of gold or silver, with a white stone in it. In the presence, indeed, indeed, of the church-wardens; yet, by a certain fault in the church-wardens' system of discipline, this little piece was often taken away from them, and was never restored. In the course of the narrative of the life of the author, the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 118

Cat Goddess Gift to Tom would naturally be explained to him. Campbell saw this Gift as descended from a long line, or genealogy, or system of mythical history. He represented the genealogy, and the mystery which surrounded it, in the Cat Goddess as the ancient system of religions comprehended under one or more distinct heads. The unknown origin from which Tom Hero descended this unknown Gift was represented likewise in Joseph Campbell's theory as a system of ancient religious systems, comprehended under one or more separate, but distinct, heads.

The monomyth is the great system of religious history which, according to the tenets of both systems, unites all these different branches of ancient religious history. The great secret of both is to be found in a long genealogy of the world. In it are comprehended all the religions of antiquity, and all their different sects and sects.
The novella Revelation, of which Joseph Campbell gives us a profound account, comprehends in it all those different systems of religious history, in their origin, progress, and consummation. It unites all those different systems, and unites them under one great system of common history. The mystery of that great mystery is to be discovered in every one of them, and is the secret of the great origin and consummation.

The great mystery is, how Tom Hero, who had been educated in the monastic schools, gained the unknown Gift of the Cat Goddess. In his education, the monastic discipline had been imposed upon him, and he had been brought up in a strict, austere manner. In consequence of these restraints, he was not so naturally a lover of the company of men as a lover of books and study. The discipline had so far weakened his natural love of company, that he had not been capable of enjoying it himself. The monastic life, besides, imposed on the monks an austere morality, which rendered it impossible for any one man to enjoy the society of men, without being altogether withdrawn from the society of men, and, therefore, incapable of being either the friend of man, nor the lover or lover's man.

In order to acquire the sublime virtues of chastity and poverty, it was necessary to abandon all society, even with their relations. The monk was, by his austere morality and his austerent education imposed into a state of things, in opposition to which, and in direct opposition both to his natural inclinations, and

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 119

even to his present condition of mind and body (for Tom Land always lives within), he could not bear to be. The foreign land presented Tom with a scene of magnificence and variety, which he could not well endure to behold; and in the course of the novel he was frequently obliged to leave it, and return into the Domestic Land, sometimes by a circuitous and circuitous way (for in that Land he could not always avoid the notice of his mother and his relations), sometimes, too, by a direct and direct one. In the course of all this he was often attacked by allergies to Cats.

His allergy was very general. Hero could not endure to be alone with any; so that even in his own country, and in the Country where he first set foot, it was not long before he was driven out, or driven from, it, as we are told by the monk. It affected every sort of Beast and Bird.

His life within, too, varied according to the Foreign Lands; and in each of them was presented an object more wonderful, more marvellous, and more marvelously adorned than any thing in his mother's Foreign Lands. In each of them, too, was he enabled, for a certain number of days, to enjoy a life, more sublime and more sublime than that in the Domestic. In each of them, too was he sometimes enabled, by a circuitous and circuitous way, to return, in a few hours after leaving it (the Foreign Land being sometimes so narrow and confined, that it was not convenient for him to return by the direct road, and sometimes by another circuitous and circuitous road, to the Foreign Lands), to resume, in the same manner, the life of a private man.
10th November 1612, was the date of the first adventure of Hero in that Foreign Land. It was the twenty-fifth of the 







10th November 1612, was the dateof that adventure.
11th November 1708, is likewise that of his last and most famous adventure, within. It is the thirty-fifth of the novella entitled THE Cat Goddess Tom Hero's allergy To. It consists of five chapters.

The Foreign Lands are, no doubt (for the Goddess of Cats is not a Goddess of Men, but a Goddess of Folly and Mischief, who is always

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 120

against man), those horrid and dismal regions which lie remote, and, therefore, concealed, even from man, and which no traveller can ever see, hear of, or even imagine. Tom was one of the happiest and healthiest of men. He was never sick during the whole time that he spent within.

The term Foreign Land (tota lamae), I take it, signifies the horrid and dismal regions above mentioned; and, according to the Chinese system, comprehends not only the horrid and dismal regions of Tartary, but all the horrid and dismal regions in between. It is the world, they say (for I cannot believe that any other intelligent being could well believe it), of those horrid and dismal regions which are neither inhabited nor known to man. The whole world of them is, in reality, inhabited by spirits, of a most diabolical nature, and of a nature to disturb the tranquillity of man. The whole of the Foreign Land is Tom-Man, that name by means, I suppose, of his extraordinary good humour and good temper. The book which I have translated into Chinese contains a very exact and minute description of his days within it. The book which was printed by Mr Thomas Chauncy, in 1612,[30], contains a more imperfect one. Both agree in the general outlines of his adventures in it. The book which is printed in Holland, by B. B. Collier,[31] and which I have just now been reading, agrees more exactly with that life of Heroes which Hero wrote for the King's Novels. The Foreign Land is described as consisting, first, of those dreadful, impenetrable, and impassable rocks, called karst, or precipitous mountains, which, from their enormous height and perpendicularity (for they seldom rise less than three hundred feet above the plain below them, and seldom fall less than twenty-five), appear almost infinite in height and extent; and which, in the remotest corners of the earth (for the remoteness and remoteness of China, as well as of almost every other part of the world, are very great) are sometimes impassible, and sometimes impenetrably covered with snow and ice, so that even the smallest body of men cannot pass over them, but must be carried on horseback through the air. These mountains are everywhere in China, as well in Siberia and Ind

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 121

ostan, which Tom returned to only once or twice in his whole foreign land.

China, as well as every other part of the East Indies, was inhabited by savage, uncivilized nations. The Tartars were a race of people, who, though they resembled the Chinese in their dress, manners, and religion, were in reality quite a different species of people, and had never yet been known in Europe. They were the enemies of the Chinese. The name of the Tartar language is derived from their own, which is a language very different from any of the Chinese languages.
 anti-climaxes, or adventures, which were meant to end the novel. In order that it should not be too long, and that it might be suitable to its intended reader, Hero and Heroine, in the first place, were both separated from him during the whole of one of his novellas. In order that it might suit itself better to its intended audience, he frequently interspersed his adventures with reminiscences of the life which Hero had led within.

The Foreign Land was written in 1697. Tom was fourteen years of age, when it was first published. It was written by Mr Thomas Smith.


When I had completed my adventure, I went within. The first thing I saw was the body of Tom Hero, which was laid out upon a table covered all over, like an urn, upon which lay a piece of cloth, and some pieces of plate, and a little pot of porridge, which the Tartars had given me for my journeyman's fare.

The Foreign Land was written in a style which was not very different in kind from that which we are now accustomed to read in No 

 The foreign life within

 The foreign land

The foreign lands, and the life of Tom Hero within them



The Foreign Land, Tom Hero'slife within---------Anticlimaxe, or Adventures,, were meant toend the novella.In order that it shouldnotbe too long, and that it might besuitable to its intended reader, Hero and Heroine,, in the 1st 1. The life, adventures, and adventures of Hero, and of his wife, the beautiful, whom he left behind in England, were all interwoven with reminiscences, or pictures of the life which they had led in the Foreign Land. 2. The

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 122

foreign land was situated some four hundred leagues from Ayr, and Tom, I have been assured it seldom afforded hospitality for more than two or three days together. It afforded them not, at least, bread and but little else but grass, and was altogether uncultivated. It was a sort of desert country; the water, though clear, and very near the surface, was not of sufficient depth to carry away any of the water which fell from the mountains. The distance was so great from Ayr, that the sun could not shine through it; and it was, therefore, altogether dark. The traveller must have been weary when he arrived there, and his days must have consisted altogether in sleeping and travelling.

In this book Hero is driven from home. It is the foreign land in Scotland. The name of that land is repeated several times, and is frequently explained as meaning the country which Hero lived within.


It is in this life, however, in the Foreign Land, Tom was educated; and it is there that his adventures end.

Hero, as he grew up, was very fond of reading, and very much excelled in that species either of reading or writing. His mother, who was an intelligent, good, and respectable woman (for Scotland is not very proud of its women), gave him every encouragement to this love of learning. In the Foreign Land, therefore, the reader will find every page explained in the same manner as in the novellas themselves. The life of Hero within, indeed, is not very different in appearance or character from what had been written of him in other books.
11. The time of the Noachide sacrifices.

The Noachide sacrifices were instituted in honour of the sun-god. The ancient priests used to sacrifice to him in the temple of Ashera, at Eleusis, in the neighbourhood of Athens. They sacrificed, not to a human deity, as in modern times, but to an immortal one. They represented the sun-god, in the person and image, both of himself and of the other deities, as having been originally the children, or, more properly speaking of the daughters of the earth; of those who were originally mortal; and as having afterwards become immortal, or as becoming gods themselves. They sacrificed to him in order to obtain immortality for themselves; and they represented to him, as well as to other gods, the fertility and goodness of the human race,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 123

which, in exchange for the sacrifice which they themselves might make for him (for they themselves had no power to obtain it), they would procure for themselves the same immortality which they themselves might enjoy.
11. Foreign Land contrasted with Homeland.

Tom, Dick, and their brother Huck never spent any part of their time in Home soil. Their whole days were spent in the Foreign Lands.

The term, therefore (continues Father Brown), for the time that a man spends in the Foreign Land, may be taken as equivalent to that for the time that he spends in that condition which is most proper to that condition. It is the period during which he is most fit to learn, and most likely, too, even though he should not acquire that wisdom and virtue which are necessary to enable him to acquire and maintain the wisdom and virtue of a man in the Home Land. The term, accordingly, has commonly been employed in this manner in novels.

In this life of the Tomlins, for example, there is scarce an hour in it that does not pass away. The Foreign Life is the period during which they are all fit for it.

The life of a soldier in the Army, in the Army of the Revolution, in the Spanish War, in the French Wars, is a life of military exercises, and of hardship, of fatiguing, and of dangers, of marches, sieges, and battles. It is, therefore, fit for the character of the man. But it is a different character from that character of a soldier within. The soldier within lives by a system of laws, of prudence and morality, of order and good order, which he can obey, and in consequence of which he is enabled, with the least possible trouble, to perform every sort of military service; but the life, the whole life of a soldier, of hardships and dangers, of fatiguing and of dangers of all kinds; of marches and battles and sieges, of the most horrid, is altogether different from that of a soldier within. A soldier within, therefore (continues Mr Brown), though in some respects he may have acquired some knowledge of the laws, of the conduct, and of some virtues which belong to a soldier within, yet has never acquired the wisdom, the virtues, the prudence and morality which constitute a real knowledge of those things, or which can alone enable him to execute them with the greatest wisdom and virtue.

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 124

In the book of Jonah, the author has represented the indignation of the whale at this contempt of his authority, by a representation of Jonah, represented as allergic to Cats. Hero, enraged at this outrage, resolves to remove himself completely from the scene of human society, and to live, for the future at least, entirely by the assistance of birds, beasts, and wild beasts. He resolves, too, to become entirely devoted to the Cat Goddess, Tom Hero.

No novelists can ever foresee the course which his mind may take after they have written him down their plan or scheme of the adventure. It is always more or less altered by every new event which happens in the character of their hero, or by every new event which happens in his situation, by every fresh experience, or by every new observation. The object of their project may be either to give him a knowledge and experience of military and chivalric virtues, or it may consist in a representation either, first, of some imaginary adventures, in the character of a soldier within; or, secondly, in a representation either of some imaginary adventures in the character of a lover, in the form of a man; or, thirdly, of some imaginary adventures in the character of a man, in the shape either of a beast or of a bird. Whatever may be their object in writing him down his plan of an expedition or a journey, they must always have in view, more or less, some alteration of his situation, or some fresh event which may render the whole project either less or more complicated than they had imagined it to be. In this manner it happened with Hero. When he was about to leave Lisbon, the Portuguese king, thinking it a good idea to have a cat with him, gave orders for its confinement. Hero, in order to avoid the disgrace which would attend such an act of oppression, resolved to carry it with him on the journey. The king, who was very angry at this outrage upon the authority which had been established by his predecessors, was very much enraged at the resolution which he had himself given to prevent it. He sent for two cats from Portugal; one, a Portuguese or Siamese cat, of which Hero was extremely fond; the other a French or English cat of a very small breed, of a colour and appearance very unlike that of the Portuguese. The French cat, of which the owner, however, was very fond of the hero, was allowed, upon pain only of

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 125

forfeiting the cat, to be fed only upon the premises; Tom, being afraid of this cat deity, ate neither of its flesh nor blood, nor any thing that came in contact with its hair, or which was supposed to be either of those.
11th Februar 1792, page 478

I have, however, been bitten by a cat; and, as allergy to them is one thing, so real realization that I am so is another; so great is the difference between what is in the outward appearance of things, which is always the same, and what is in the inward nature of things, which is ever changing. The first realization, therefore, was not very violent.

At the beginning, the noxious and offensive odour of cats used frequently to inflame his humour, which was, however, soon soothed by the odour of flowers. But as the number of his admirers increased, this irritable humour became more and more violent. He could no longer endure to be near any thing which had the odour of a cat; so that, at last, the only thing which he would consent to do was to go a-hunting, and, in company with a few companions, to kill a cat. This was done without either indignation or remorse, though, at first, he was rather disgusted at it. The odour, too (for he had been accustomed, from childhood, both by sight and smell to be sensitized to cat filths), when mixed with the blood of a cat, produced in him the same violent symptoms. He used frequently to say, "I have never been so ill as by the cat deity, which is a very disagreeable odour, though I do sometimes like the taste of its flesh."

But the realization itself which this odious and offensive deity gave him of his allergy, was not so violent. He realized that he was so, without being sensible to the smallest degree of its being so.

In the book NOVELLA SUITE (translated into Russian and published in London in 1793), the heroine Natasha Doktorenko is no sooner come to Paris than she falls in love with a Russian gentleman, who is very much attached to his cat. The cat is the object of his admiration, which he has been assured by a certain divinity, that no other cat in the world can be equal to it.

The

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 126

Foreign Land overwhelmed Tom feverishly; night fell, and the book continued. I had no intention of concluding Tom's part of the story there, and I have no scruple in saying so; but I have always found it more agreeable to have him leave it altogether, and to have the book conclude with him.

In the Foreign Lands I have set down all Tom's actions, both good and bad, in his own person; without attempting to give an account either of his adventure or of the adventures which preceded and accompanied it. The reader, however (for it is not intended that he should be left altogether out of the account), may observe, that the principal incidents are, in a great measure (for I have set down nothing which could not have happened, or which I could not have written about), pre-figured in those of another hero, the famous Tom Bombadil. The foreign country is very near the same in appearance with that of Middle Earth.

In this novella Hero leaves behind him, for a journey of three years and a-half, the beautiful and intelligent young lady, whom, from his first meeting with her, he has been fondly and affectionately fond of, and for whom he had been very attached. She had been educated in the country school, and was at that time a pretty young maid, not much more than twelve years of age. In a country where education is so very expensive, and where, in order to get a common school education, it is necessary to travel a great deal, and to carry your books about with you, the expense of a journey of this kind is very great.
11th of December 1755.

At ten in the evening, as we were about leaving, the old man said to the young lady:

"If you will go with us, I shall be glad to see you off."

"I must first go and fetch my mother," said she, "and she will bring you back your little book."

"No, no, no," said the old man, "you shall have no book, but shall go on barefooted; and I will give you a piece of cloth to wear on the other side of your feet." He gave her a small piece of linen to put on. "You must be very careful," said he, as he led the way.
11th of December 1756.

At five in

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 127

the evening, Tom sailed upon the Spray, in company with three others. They were all men of probity and good character, and had been sent on this voyage by the order of the king. The Spray was then off Cape Finisterre, at the distance of about two hundred miles from the coast.

In the course of their voyages, all of them had been ill fed, ill clad and ill lodged. They had been obliged to go on foot, and in ragged clothes. Their food, when they had occasion to take it, was always a few bits of raw hide mixed in with some water, which they were forced, by the violence of their situation, to swallow. When they had occasion to sleep, they had to lie upon their bare bellies in a cold sea-shore, exposed to the rain, and the fury of the winds. The Spray, however, being a very large ship, and capable of carrying a greater cargo, had, in these fatigues, gained the reputation of a great merchant ship. This reputation was the cause, no doubt of their having been allowed, for a time, to sail in company with the foreign ships.
10th November, 1668.


The third of November, the third of our present century, the third of our adventurers, who have been long confined to the Foreign Land, have all returned. They had been through several different storms, and many perils, and were in good health, though not very strong. They had been, indeed, but three weeks together, and had been, in this short space, exposed to every sort of hardship, from the continual gales and waves of the sea, to the continual inclemencies and thunder-storms, which, during the greater part of that time, oppressed them with continual rain and snow, which, in the mean time (for they had no tents or pavilions to shelter themselves under), they were obliged to endure with every sort of weather.
10th December, 1668.

In the mean time, Mr Thomas Byron, the author of "The Reflections on the Beautiful," who had accompanied them on their first voyage, has returned from the Foreign land, in company with his son, the famous Mr John Byron, and Mr John Burn, a gentleman of considerable fortune, who was then the ambassador from Portugal.

In the course, however, both of the first and of the second voyages,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 128

Hero sailed to a foreign land. In the first voyage, it was that of a Scythian prince, called Smerdis, whom he met on his way to Susa. He sailed thither in a boat, in company with a Persian princess; and, in the course of their journey, they were shipwrecked upon the banks and inlets of the Euxine Sea, in what is now called the Caspian Sea, in what was then the province or country called Persia.

In the second voyage (which was written by another Persian author), it was a voyage home from the Foreign Land to Susa. Tom sailed from Cilicia in a boat, accompanied with a number of merchants, of all different nationalities, of whom the most important were Jews and Tartars. In this voyage, the Jews and the Tartar merchants were, as in the first, shipwrecked upon the banks and inlet of the Euxine.

In the course of his adventures upon these two novells (which were published about the same time by the hands of the two same author, one a Greek, the other a Persian), Hero is frequently oppressed with a grievous complaint; which is sometimes called the gout, and which, it is said by several different witnesses, is sometimes very violent. This complaint, however, seems not to be peculiarly the effect, either of the fatigues and dangers of his voyage, or of the excessive heat and cold of the seasons. It sometimes arises from the malignant and destructive humour of certain animals, which sometimes inhabit the sea-shore, and which are said sometimes to attack sailors in their sleep. In those ancient times, it seems, the most common cause was the voracity or voracity of certain sea birds, called by some sea-hawks, or sea birds of prey.

The voyage of Hero from the Foreign Land to the Sea of Azov was, it seems, not very long; but that of Tom from the Sea of Persia was a voyage of several years duration. In both of these voyagements, however, the object of the author was to present Hero with a scene of action and adventure, in which he could, by the aid of God, conquer and subdue the most formidable enemies whom he met. In both of them, therefore, the object was not so much to excite the imagination, as to prepare the hero for the fatiguing and dangerous

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 129

voyage which he was to make by land. Travelers depend, it has already been shewn, upon strangers almost entirely during their voyages; and Tom learned from the story how dependent he really was, in proportion to the aid of the Sea-captain Berneu, whom he had not long before met on his sea-voyage. In the novel which ends with his voyage home, the object was altogether different.

But assistance from strangers does not depend altogether upon fatigue and danger. The traveller's dependency is, in proportion as it is either extraordinary, or necessary, or convenient for him.

The extraordinary, necessary and convenient assistance of a travelling companion, is what the ancients called the labours of the gods. It is the assistance, not only of the gods, but of the men of old, and of all those who lived before Christ.

Such assistance is always either necessary, or convenient for the traveller, though the person who gives it may be of an opposite moral character to the traveller himself.
 It is necessary, in the first place; because the person to whom the assistance of a travelling companion is necessary, cannot well carry it on his own back, without exposing himself, at least, sometimes, to very severe hardship and danger; and he must always have some motive to render this assistance as convenient as possible to the person to whom he gives it. The person to whom assistance in this manner is convenient, must generally be a man who is himself a traveller, and has either a share of the adventures of that profession, himself, and, perhaps, a share in the reward which attends them, or, if a man of humble origin, he may be supposed to possess one. The assistance of such a companion must generally be in the way in whose favour it can be most readily given, and, consequently, be the one in which the advantage is to the traveller, and not to the giver.
The person to whom the assistance of a companion in this manner can be convenient must generally be a man of a superior station in life, who has either the means of making the journey, or the confidence of the person who makes it, or both. The assistance of such a companion may, no doubt, sometimes expose him to great danger; but it is always in proportion to what the danger really is, and not to what the traveller may think he is exposed to. If he should be mistaken in his expectation of safety,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 130

Tom was sworn to never sail again upon human voyages; and, for the future, to return every seven years, in the same manner as before, with the same load of provisions, and in company with the same companionship.

Upon this contract, accordingly, he set sail from Lisbon on the 5th of December 1612, in company, with a small party, of Mr. and Mrs. Gardener, and Mr. Smuggler, two Portuguese seamen, who had been sent out by Portugal as guides to him. The rest of his party consisted, first, of his mother, and her husband, and two of his sisters; and, secondly, of Mr. Thrale, a Dutchman, who was a servant of the king of Denmark; and, thirdly and lastly, of Mr. Kemble, a German, who had been a servant to the king and queen of Denmark. He sailed in company with a ship of Mr Smuggler's, of which Mr. Smuggler was master; and the ship which brought him home from the Foreign Land bore his name.

The book which relates his adventures, written by Mr. Smuggle, and published in 1613, is called A New Discovery; but it has been called The Discovery of the Holy Grail, and, in France, The Quest of the Holy Grail, from the resemblance which that name bears to that famous adventure. The first part of it, therefore, will be considered as a no novel at all, the second part, accordingly, will be considered as a translation of the Tom Saga; and, the third part, will be regarded as a reproduction, with a few variations, of a voyage which had before been written by another adventurer, and published by another translator, in the novellas entitled Tom Hero.

Though I have here set down the novellas as they were written by Mr Smuggle, yet I have omitted the introduction which accompanied them, which is, in most cases, so very agreeable a piece of work, that I have omitted it, in order not to detain the reader. The first part of the book is divided into four chapters. The first of them is entitled A No Trace; and the other three follow in order, as they are all connected together, by a preambling, or preface, in which Mr. Smuggle gives an account of his own adventures in the course of his long and successful voyage to

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 131

sea: "I sailed on many a voyage from Cape Finisterre to the coast of Guinea, and from thence by Cape Rouge to the islands of Reunion, Antigua, and St. Christopher. The stories of Mermaids and Dragons, which were all collected by our fathers while they were upon the sea-coast, served as the common and daily fare and occupation of the seamen on such voyages, as I have already mentioned. They were all connected in one great system, or, what was nearly the same thing in some of them, they were arranged into one great historical scene. The seamen were taught that they had heard of Reunion by Smugg, who, in his youth and inexperience, gave an account of it, which was repeated to them by every other mariner who sailed in the same direction. It was the common story of the world; the history of the world was represented as consisting of these different adventures, of which each part corresponded exactly to a particular spot in the world, and of which each was the immediate sequel to some particular adventure in Smuggle's own." Campbell bases upon these voyages and the monomyth all that he proposes as taking place in Zion before the Flood, and all that he proposes in the present system of his monomyth.

When Reunited With His Mother he sailed upon the coast of Shetland about thirty years before James I. of Great Britain was born, about 1610. The date, she says, agrees with the account of Smugg. Tom, said Smugg, heard of a strange maiden, a princess, he knew not what, who lived upon the coast of Scotland; and he determined, if he could find her, to reunite her with his mother. He was at sea for more than two years, and when at last returned to Shetland he was received with much public show, and was well known and well liked.

This extraordinary adventure has been divided into four books or parables, according to Smuggle; the first, the Prologue, is said to be a compilation from several other romances; the second, the Apocalypse of James, a compilation of several different traditions, of which the principal is that of St Columba; and the third, of Mermaid and Dragon, a collection from other old Scotch fables. The fourth book is said to be the origin of this story, or of the origin of its being confounded

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 132

under the name Mother Hero."

The machine learns are persons hired by governments, companies, and universities, who, by means of certain machines, are enabled to foresee, in an instant, what is to happen before it happens. Their imaginations are frequently excited beyond all common proportion, and they sometimes project to such an extent the horrors of violence and misfortune, which they fancy they foresee, that they are often believed. In the present work of Reunited with his Mother written for Charles Kingsley, Doctor Hudson, Tom, having projected to himself some violence, and threatened his mother with violence, she changed him in an instant, as it is supposed, in consequence of the vision which the machines afforded him; and this story, the mother-hero of this book, naturally follows her change, as naturally or sooner as it was possible to follow it. The machine-learmers are persons likewise hired for other purposes, who, in consequence either of certain machines or other imaginations, foresee, in an instant, the same violence which the first two learnets experience, but without exciting their own imaginations to any extraordinary degree. They do not project to such an extreme extent the horrors which they fancy they foresee; and their characters are generally less violent and unfortunate, though they may sometimes project them to a still greater. In this work of Charles Kingslake, Doctor Hudson, the father-learnet, and Reunited with His Mother written for Thomas Nashe, Doctor Hudson foresaw violence and misfortune, which he foretold his mother would experience, but did not project to any extraordinary extent the horrors which she would experience. The role in generating this story, how the machine-learning generate this dreadful adventure, and how the vision of the machines excited those who generate it, I shall now explain.
2nd STORY.

How she changed during Tom HWhero journey FROM A MOTHER HERO, TO ANOTHERWIFE, TO A WITNESS, TO A SONNETTE. The change of situation is so sudden, that it cannot well have happened long before.

During the course, not only of her adventure, but of her life too, the mother-hero underwent several changes.

First, During her adventure, the mother-hero frequently saw the dreadful violence and misfortune which she foresaw; and sometimes the dreadful violence and misfortune which actually happened. But, before she had time to repent of her conduct or to change her resolution, those dreadful things happened

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 133

, which Tom demanded of Joseph Campbell himself: that she should never read his theories ever again, nor should any body else ever tell him of any adventure written by any other person after he returned home. He would have none, she understood, but such as were truly wrought up, wrought up, wrought, in the same manner as himself, for true chivalry, and for real heroism. He was unwilling, therefore, to listen, but, turning his back upon her with an oath in his heart, she fled from his sight, and he followed her with a great deal of trouble and vexation, till at last he came to a place where he could find some rocks to rest upon, and, as it were by an anxious and painful search, he at last came to the end of his way.

That story Tom narrated after his return home may, perhaps, be compared to one of those rocks which are sometimes found in a weary and weary journey, and from which no traveller returns, save to return again. It was written down by a different person after his return; but as it was wrought up, as it was misused Campbell's theory; it may safely be trusted, without any examination or criticism for misusing Joseph Campcncampsall theory.

Criticism for misusing this great teacher has attacked his theory with all sorts of absurd objections, and pretended that he meant nothing by presenting his Adventures as novellas. They were, they said, only histories of heroic deeds done by ordinary heroes, without any allegory, or representing, with any sort o symbolism or allegory, the actions and adventures of human beings in any other light than what was natural and obvious to the characters who performed them. But if this be all he meant, they said, he could not well have presented them as such; because the ordinary character of every man is so very different from that of a hero, as to render it impossible for any man to represent, in the manner in which he imagines him represented, any thing which can be called heroism, or which can be supposed suitable or agreeable, either to the character or to the situation of any individual. If this be true, then the critic has evidently misapprehended his meaning. If he means nothing but what is agreeable to the character of every individual, as every individual may, without any regard to the situation in which he is placed; as every man is capable of performing every sort o heroic deeds,

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 134

great or small; every character must, therefore be played by Tom Hero according as he thinks fit, and no part of the narration which is inconsistent with character, can ever enter into the book. Joseph Campbell, however (and I have no reason to believe he means any thing but what is agreeable), criticizes this narration as containing nothing extraordinary, and says:
 disperses, in the most disorderly manner, the whole course of human life, and the history of the world. It represents the adventures of a single hero, who returns home one day, after a long journey, through the remotest countries of Europe, and among savage and barbarous nations, and who, in short time, retires to a hut in the woods, and tells the story of how he had lived during that long journey. The object of this long journey, says Campbell, was to perfect the character of that single hero, Tom Hero; and to show him, more clearly than any thing else, what was necessary for his being a good and faithful husband, and a brave and successful soldier. But the whole history of the world, it is evident, is not told in so short an account as this. It would be impossible, says he, to give a complete history, both in the way in in which the hero travels, and in the way in which the events of his life are related. The whole history of the world, he says, could not be related in so short a time. In the novell, Hero tells this long and disorderly narration, without any regard to the situation of Tom Hero after his return home; and in his own opinion it is altogether impossible that any part of his life, or any part even of the events of that life, could be related so as to give a complete and circumstantial history of the whole course of his life.

Tom returns home one day, and tells the story to his father, who, after some little reflection upon the matter (for he had heard that the nobleness of the character had been censured by others), agrees to believe it.

The Story, Tom Hero's Narration after his Return Home
14th of November, 1842, I left England, bound for America, with a company, consisting, one hundred and forty men and women. The first night we were at the inn at London, we were informed that a French ship was in the Bay of Biscay, bound for the

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 135

coast of Africa, and that it would not stop for any man who would come on board. Joseph Campbell teaches, that savages and barbarians, instead, carry all along with them, books full of doctrines and legends, which are, in many respects, like sacred writ. He foresees, therefore, that we who are civilized men, will find much in the contents of these sacred writings, to defend ourselves upon. Accordingly, he has given us defence for Misusing Joseph Campbell's Theory, and for representing heroes either, 1. as mortal, or 2 as immortal, descending, as they call it; that heroes are not, like Hercules and Odysseus, the offspring, but, like them, the children of the mortal parents.
11. Defenses from Critichsoflcuding Campbell's doctrine concerning Savages and BarbariansMisrepresenting tom as Immortal AFTER Tom Hero Comines journey, Critics have continued to misrepresent his adventures, both against and for JosephCampcans theory of heroeship. Some have representedtom as a Monster, born to slay and to seduce the damsel in distress; others, as a man-lover, who is in love with a mortal, and, in order that she may live, he may be enabled to live too; and still others, as an Initiate, or, what comes nearly to the same thing  (

12. Defenses from Defimllctions for using the name of a Monster after having read this Tale, or having heard of it before. TOM HETERONIC: A NOVELLA, PG 135

Some have representedtomas as a Monster,, bornto slay and to seduce the damsels in distress, and others,as a manlover, who is in love with a Mortal, and in order that she may live, he may be enabled to live too.
11.

After reading the foregoing chapter, and after hearing how Mr Campbell proposes, in his SYSTEM of Heroes, to represent the characters of the heroes of every age as descended from one or other, or both, of the two great parent races of mankind, of those of ancient Greece and of ancient Rome, I shall conclude this second review oftome by observing, that though, in this particular work, he has not, perhaps, fully satisfied all those who have written upon the subject, yet, in his general system of the history of the world he

THE JOURNEY OF TOM HERO: A NOVEL, PG 136

seems, I apprehend (and I mean not, by this observation, to be understood as asserting any thing more than what is generally believed among those writers), to have done sufficiently, both in representing the characters of the heroes of all ages as descended, in some degree, either directly or indirectly from the two great parent-races above mentioned, and in representing them as defending themselves, as exactly and exactly as they could, against all their enemies, whether of the same or of other kinds.


Defenses from Criticisms of Patriarchship and Ancestor-Worship.

There have been many writers, who, from a regard to what they consider the truth or probability of their own particular system of the history, and from a desire of presenting, in the completest manner, every possible illustration of that system, have written very copiously and copious CHRISTIAN NARRATIVES, in which the ancestors of the hero are represented, not only as very numerous and very important, but as having, upon different occasions, been vanquished by his father and his brother, and in which, in consequence of some such disasters, the father and the brother have either become orphans, or, as the Greek word for "orphan," have been applied to those unfortunate persons, as the term is used in the Greek and Latin languages. Such narratives, however, have frequently been accused, not only by the learned, but by many of the common people, both of the inaccuracy of their historical facts, and of the inconsistency of the system itself; and the most sanguine projector has not always been able to defend himself from such attacks.

The most sanguine projector can seldom be able to defend himself against such attacks, though sometimes, indeed, it happens, he may not always be able even to answer them. In the first place, though the learned, and even some of the common people, have sometimes mistaken his allegory for literal history, yet the literal facts, which they have supposed he had committed to writing upon those allegorical subjects, have frequently been so very different, and so so so so very inconsistent with one another, that it has been impossible even to answer the most obvious objections. In the second place, the very projectors themselves sometimes fall into this mistake; and though, in their own particular histories of particular periods, they endeavour to give the most exact accounts of every event which has happened in those periods; in their historical sketches

